GURRE KAMILAROI:
OR
KAMILAROI SAYINGS
BY
WILLIAM RIDLEY,
MISSIONARY.
THE ENGRAVINGS BY W. MASON.
"To whom he was not spoken of, they shall see; and they who have not heard
shall understand."--Paul to Romans, xv., 21.
SYDNEY:
PRINTED AT THE EMPIRE GENERAL STEAM PRINTING OFFICE,
172, GEORGE STREET.
1856.
gurre kamilaroi.
a b d e g h i j k l m n ng
o p r t u v w y
ai ao oi
ippai, murri, kubbi, kumbo.
ippata, mata, kapota, buta.
yarai, gille, taon, wi, boiyoi.
giwir, inar, birri, mie.
kaingal, buba, ngumba.
wurume, ngummunga.
daiadi, boadi.
[Illustration: b  bundar.]
[Illustration: d  dinoun.]
[Illustration: g  giwir.]
[Illustration: i  inar.]
[Illustration: j  jimba.]
[Illustration: k  karangi.]
[Illustration: m  mullion.]
[Illustration: n  nurai.]
[Illustration: ng  ngarumnon]
[Illustration: p  pilar.]
[Illustration: t  tulu.]
[Illustration: w  waru.]
[Illustration: y  yaraman.]
baiame gir yarai, gille, mirri, taon ellibu gimobi.
baiame yalwunga murruba; baiame minnaminnabul
ngummilda, minnaminnabul winungulda.
baime gir kanungo kubba, kunial, maian, tulu,
yindal, beran, boiyoi gimobi.
baiame gir yaraman, burumo, bundar, mute, duli,
dinoun, buralga, biloela, millimumul, gulamboli, kobado,
mullion, guiya, nurai, ngundoba, burulu, mungin, kanungo
di gombi.
baiame gir giwir gimobi; mal giwir adam. baiame
go: "kamil murruba giwir ngandil nguddelago; ngaia
giwirgo inar gimbille." ila baiame inar gimobi; mal
inar iv: iv gulir adamu.
adam buba murringu, buba wundangu, buba kanungo:
iv ngumba murringu, ngumba wundangu, ngumba kanungo.
adam iv ellibu warawara yanani. kanungo giwir
kanungo inar warawara yanani, kanungo kagil ginyi.
baiame yili ginyi, goe, "kanungo giwir, kanungo inar
warawara yanani, kanungo kagil ginyi, ngaia ngarma balu
bumale." immanuel, wurume baiamengu, goe "kamil.
kamil nginda ngarma bumala, nginda ngunna bumala, ngaia
balugi, giwir inar moron gigigo."
immanuel ngeanekunda baiame: ngerma baiame giwir
ginyi. murruba immanuel; kamil ngaragedul murruba
yealokwai ngerma.
ilambo immanuel taongo tai-yanani, giwir ginyi.
ngerma gir burula wibil murruba gimobi, burula muga murruba
gimobi, burula muga-binna murruba gimobi.
giwir
kair layaru. ngerngu bular boadi, mari, mata. layaru wibil
ginyi. bular boadi gurre waala immanuelgo, goaldendai,
"ngai daiadi, nginnu layaru, wibil." kamil yanani immanuel.
Yerala layaru baluni. bularbularo babine balun
taonda. ila immanuel taiyanani. mari mata ellibu
yugillona. immanuel goe, "nginnu daiadi yealo moron
gigi." burula giwir burula inar yugillona. immanuel
daonmago yanani. yarul daonma kundawi; immanuel
goe "ngindai arul diomulla" ngarma gir yarul diome.
immanuel kakuldone "layaru taiyanunga." i layaru
moron ginyi, taiyanani. bular boadi burul guiye.
ngarageduli miedul wibil ginyi; ngumba boiyoi wune;
kamil miedul murruba ginyi; murru ginyi wibil, ngullimun
baluni. buba yanani immanuel ngummillego; gir
ngummi; goe, "inda barai taiyanunga, murruba gimbildi
ngai miedul. ngai miedul burul wibil ngullimun baluni;
inda taiyanunga ngai kundigo." immanuel goe,
"ngulle yanoai kundigo." ila yanani bular
kundigo. ngumba duri, yugillona, goe "ngii! ngii! ngai
miedul baluni." burula inar yugillona goe "ngii!
miedul baluni." immanuel goe "kurria yunga. kamil
miedul baluni; yeal babillona." burulabu gindami;
ngarma gir balundai winungi. immanuel murra kawani
miedul, goe, "miedul waria." ila miedul moron ginyi,
warine, gurre goe. ngumba, buba ellibu, burul guiye.
ngarageduli bular giwir muga nguddelona turrubulda
immanuel aro yanani; bular muga winungi. kakuldone,
"immanuel, durunmi, wurume, davidu ngummilla!
ngurraga ngeane." burula giwir goe "kurria! kurria
ngindai kakullego." giwir muga yealo kakuldone
"durunmi, wurume davidu, ngummilla! ngurraga ngeane."
[Illustration: immanuel gir bular muga murruba gimobi.]
ila immanuel warine, goe "minna ngindai goalle? minna
ngaia murramulle?" ngarma goe, "durunmi, wuna
ngeane ngummildai." ila immanuel ngarma mil tamulda:
baianbu ngarma murru ngummillego.
burula kagil giwir immanuel kunmulta. ngarma
kaogo bindea yulalle. ngarma gir tulu wimi, ngaragedul
tulu nganbir wimi: ngarma gir immanuel wimi; murra
biru-duni, dinna biru-duni; tului wirri. ngarma tulu
tiome, immanuel tului pindelundai. yerala immanuel
baluni. yerala giwir pilari turrur duni; gue dulirri.
bullului ngarma gir immanuel taonda wimi, kundawi.
immanuel nguru babine balun taonda; yealo malo babine
balun taonda; yealo ngaragedul nguru babine balun
taonda: ngaragedul nguruko moron ginyi, warine.
[Illustration: immanuel baluni.]
yerala gunagullago
yanani. yeladu immanuel gunagullada nguddela: ngerma
kanungo ngummilda, kanungo winungulda.
murruba immanuel; kamil ngaragedul murruba
yealokwai ngerma. yerala immanuel yealo taongo
taiyanille; ngeane kanungo ngummille. immanuel kaia
goalle; ila kanungo balun, giwir, inar, kaingal, kanungo
moron gigi. immanuel goalle "minna inda gimobi?
minna inda gimboi? inda murruba gimobi? inda
ngununda taiyanunga gunagullago. inda kagil gimobi?
inda biru yanunga, urribu yanunga."
giru nginda kagil ginyi; inda warawara yanani;
giru baiame yili ginyi. baiame yalwunga murruba;
ngeane kanungo warawara yanani. winungulla: kamil
ngaia yal goalda; giru ngaia goalda. immanuel ngirribatai
yarine, gunagulladi taongo. kanungo giwir kagil ginyi:
immanuel ngandil murruba; immanuel baluni, giwir
moron gigigo.
Yeladu baiame goalda; "ngindai, kanungo giwir,
kurria kagil gigle, berudi warraia; ngeane murru
ngurrile. kamil ngaia yili gigla. murruba immanuel
baluni." yeladu immanuel goalda: "taiyanunga ngununda
kanungo ngindai inggil, ila ngaia ngindai tubbiamulle."
inda taiyanunga immanuelgo.
giwir nguddelona
littraga: bain dinna tunggor, ngurribu bain ge bain;
kamil yanelina. paul, barnaba ellibu, aro yanani. paul
goaldone; baindul ngerma winungailone. paul kaia
ngummildone, kakuldone, "waria ngurriba dinnaga."
tungordul parine, yanani ellibu.
burulabu giwir ngummi, goe "ngipai!" kakuldone
"baiame bular yarine yealokwai giwir." paul, barnaba
ellibu, bunnangunne, kakuldone, "kurria! kamil ngeane
baiame; ngeane giwir yealokwai ngindai. ngeane guiye
murru ngurringillone. ngeane murru goalda burulabu;
kurria ngindai yealo kagil gigle: berudi warraia,
ngummilla baiame moron. baiame gir gunagulla, taon,
burul kolle, kanungo minnaminnabul gimobi. baiame
yalwunga baiame."
Kamilaroi is the language spoken by the aborigines
along the Namoi River, on part of the Bundarra
and Balun, and 200 miles of the Barwan (or Darling);
also on Liverpool Plains, and about the head of the
Hunter.
The writer believes that any one who carefully
reads through this Key, _especially the first 2 pages_, will be
able to pronounce the foregoing Kamilaroi sentences,
and teach the aborigines to read them. Many of the
aborigines, especially the young men, are very quick at
learning to read.
It is very important that the rule of _naming_ the
letters according to their pronunciation in words should
be attended to, as it will remove great difficulties from
the way of beginners. How could an ignorant person
guess that the letter called "double you" had the sound
w in wit? or that "aitch" was merely a hard breathing?
The Christian into whose hands this little book may
come, and who has any aborigines speaking kamilaroi
near, is earnestly requested to consider, whether it is not
worth a patient and prayerful effort to teach them to
read those precious saving truths which are dimly and
scantily, but in some measure really, expressed in these
brief sentences.
KEY
To the foregoing "Kamilaroi speech."
RULES OF PRONUNCIATION.
Pronounce a as a in father
" a as a in mat
" e as ey in obey
" e as e in net
" i as i in marine
" i as i in it
" o as o in bone
" o as o in on
" u as oo in moon
" u as u in bun
" ai as i in wine
" ao as ow in how
" oi as oi in noise
" g always as in go
" ng as ng in ring.
In English we use the sound ng or ng only at the
end of a syllable; its frequent occurrence at the beginning
of a syllable in Kamilaroi is therefore a slight, but
only a slight difficulty. It is only necessary to use precisely
the same consonant sound which we have in ring,
sing, &#38;c., with a vowel after and not before it.
N.B. Name the letters as they are pronounced; that
is, call g _ge_ (as in get), h _he_, ng _eng_, r _re_, w _we_, and
y _ye_. Thus the name will guide the learner to the
proper sound in spelling.
The first four words on page 3 are names of men;
the next four words are names of women; then, as
follow, each line hereunder containing the English words
for the correspond line of Kamilaroi:--
sun, moon, earth, fire, pennyroyal (herb).
man, woman, boy, girl.
child, father, mother.
son, daughter.
brother, sister.
God verily sun, moon, stars, earth also made.
God always is good; God everything
sees, everything hears.
God verily every hill, plain, watercourse, tree,
grass, beran (a herb), pennyroyal made.
God verily horse, dog, kangaroo, opossum, goanna,
emu, native companion, cockatoo, swallow, pelican, parrot,
eagle, fish, brown-snake, deadly-black-snake, flies, mosquitoes, all
animals made.
God verily man made; first man Adam. God
said, "Not good man alone for to dwell; I
for man woman will make." Then God woman made; first
woman Eve; Eve wife of Adam.
Adam is father of the blackfellows, father of the whites, father of all:
Eve the mother of blacks, mother of whites, mother of all.
Adam, Eve also, astray went. All men
all women astray went, all bad became.
God angry became, he said "All men, all women,
astray are gone, all bad have become. I them dead
will smite." Immanuel, Son of God, said "Not so.
Not thou them smite; Thou me smite, I
will die; man, woman, alive for to be."
Immanuel with us God: he God man
became. Good is Immanuel; not another is good like him.
Long ago Immanuel to earth came, man he became.
He verily many sick well made, many blind
well made, many deaf well made.
A man
name Lazarus. Belonging to him two sisters Mary, Marta. Lazarus sick
became. The two sisters word sent to Immanuel, saying,
"My brother, Thy Lazarus, is sick." Not went Immanuel.
By and bye Lazarus died. Four days he lay dead
in the ground. Then Immanuel came. Mary, Martha also
were weeping.  Immanuel said "Your brother again alive
shall be." Many men, many women, were weeping. Immanuel
to the grave went; a stone the grave covered; Immanuel
said "Ye the stone take away." They the stone lifted up.
Immanuel cried aloud "Lazarus come forth." Then Lazarus
alive became, he came forth. The two sisters were very glad.
At another time a little girl sick became; the mother pennyroyal gave;
not the little girl well became; much she grew sick, almost
dead. The father went Immanuel to see; truly
he found him; he said "Thou quickly come, well make
my little girl. My little girl is very sick, almost dead;
you come to my house." Immanuel said
"We two will go to the House." Then went the two
to the house. The mother came, she wept, said "Alas! alas! my
little girl is dead." Many women were weeping, said "Alas!
the little girl is dead." Immanuel said "Cease weeping. Not
the girl is dead; only she is asleep." All of them laughed;
they verily her to-be-dead knew. Immanuel by hand took
the girl, said "damsel arise." Then the girl alive became,
arose, words spoke. The mother, father also, very glad.
Another time, two men blind sat by the way.
Immanuel there came; the two blind heard, they cried aloud,
"Immanuel, King, Son of David, look!
pity us." Many people said "Have done! cease
ye to cry aloud." The men blind again cried aloud
"King, Son of David, look! pity us!"
Then Immanuel stood still, said "What you will say? What
I shall do?" They said "King, grant
us to see." Then Immanuel them eyes touches;
instantly they are able to see.
Many bad men Immanuel seized. They
on his head thorns bound. They indeed a log laid, another
log across they laid: they indeed Immanuel laid down; hands
they pierced, feet they pierced; on cross fastened. They the cross
raised, Immanuel on the cross hanging. Soon Immanuel
died. Soon after a man with a spear his side pierced; blood flowed.
In evening they verily Immanuel in ground laid, covered.
Immanuel the night lay dead in ground; also one day he lay
dead in ground; also another night he lay dead
in ground; next morning alive he became, arose.
Soon after to heaven he went. Now Immanuel in heaven dwells; he
all sees, all knows.
Good is Immanuel; not another is good
like him. Hereafter Immanuel again to earth
will come; we all shall see. Immanuel aloud
will speak; then all the dead, men, women, children, all
alive shall become. Immanuel will say "What hast thou done?
What has thou done? thou good hast done? Thou
to me come to heaven. Thou evil hast done?
thou far go, very far go away."
Truly thou bad hast become; thou astry hast gone;
truly God angry is. God always is good;
we all astray have gone. Hearken; not
I lies tell; truth I tell. Immanuel from above
came down, from heaven to earth. All men bad are become;
Immanuel only is good; Immanuel died, men
alive for to be.
Now God saith: "Ye, all men,
cease bad to be, turn ye; we will be
reconciled. Not I angry am. Good Immanuel
died." Now Immanuel saith: "Come unto me
all ye weary, then I you will cause to rest."
You come to Immanuel.
A man dwelt
at Lystra; with sick foot diseased, very ill indeed;
not he could walk. Paul, Barnabas also there came. Paul
was speaking; the lame man him was hearing. Paul earnestly
looked, he cried aloud "stand upright on feet."
The lame man leapt, walked also.
All the people saw, they wondered, they cried aloud
"Gods two are come down like men." Paul, Barnabas
also ran, cired aloud "Have done! not we
gods; we men like you. We glad
become, we sorry become, we angry become, again we
are reconciled. We good tell to all;
cease ye any more evil to be; turn ye
look to God the living. God verily heaven, earth
the great water, all, everything made. God
always is God (the same ever.")
End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of gurre kamilaroi, by William Ridley
