Produced by The University of Michigan's Making of America
online book collection (http://www.hti.umich.edu/m/moa/).
The
ACT OF INCORPORATION
and the
BY-LAWS
of the
Massachusetts Homoeopathic Medical Society.
Boston:
Printed by Fred Rogers.
159 Washington Street
1864.
ACT OF INCORPORATION.
Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
In the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Fifty-Six.
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE MASSACHUSETTS HOMOEOPATHIC MEDICAL SOCIETY.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General
Court assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:--
SECT. 1.--Samuel Gregg, William Wesselhoeft, Luther Clark, George
Russell, Milton Fuller, John A. Tarbell, David Thayer, their
associates and successors, physicians, be, and they hereby are, made
a Corporation, by the name of the MASSACHUSETTS HOMOEOPATHIC MEDICAL
SOCIETY, with all the powers and privileges, and subject to all the
duties, liabilities, and restrictions, set forth in the forty-fourth
chapter of the Revised Statues.
SECT. 2.--Said Corporation may hold real and personal estate to the
amount of fifty thousand dollars.
SECT. 3.--The members of said Society shall not be liable to be
mustered or enrolled in the militia of this Commonwealth.
SECT. 4.--The members of said Society, or such of their officers or
members as they shall appoint, shall have full power and authority to
examine all candidates for membership, concerning the practice of
specific medicine and surgery, provided said candidates shall sustain
a good moral character, and shall present letters testimonial of
their qualifications from some legally authorized medical
institution; and if, upon such examination, the said candidates shall
be found qualified for membership, they shall receive the approbation
of the Society.
SECT. 5.--This act shall take effect from and after its passage.
House of Representatives, May 30, 1856.
Passed to be enacted,          CHARLES A. PHELPS, Speaker.
In Senate, May 31, 1856.
Passed to be enacted,          ELIHU C. BAKER, President.
June 3, 1856.  Approved,          HENRY J. GARDNER.
Secretary's Office, Boston, June 24, 1856.
A true copy.
Attest:               FRANCIS DE WITT,
Secretary of the Commonwealth.
BY-LAWS
of the
Massachusetts Homoeopathic Medical Society,
Revised and Adopted April 13th, 1864.
*    *
SOCIETY.
I. This Society shall consist of the persons named in the Act of
Incorporation, and such other persons as may have been elected
members in accordance with its By-laws.
OFFICERS OF THE SOCIETY.
II. The Society, at its Annual Meeting, shall elect, by ballot, a
President, two Vice-Presidents, Corresponding Secretary, Recording
Secretary, Treasurer, Librarian, and five Censors, who shall together
constitute an Executive Committee, to whom shall be intrusted the
general business of the Society when it is not in session; the
appointment of all standing committees, and such other committees as
they may deem expedient; and the selection of some suitable person to
deliver an address, at the annual meeting of the Society, on some
subject connected with medical science. At every annual meeting, they
shall present a report of their proceedings during the past year; and
shall also furnish a list of two candidates for each office of the
Society for the ensuing year. The officers shall continue in office
till the adjournment of the annual meeting next after their election,
at which time the duties of the newly elected officers shall commence.
DUTIES OF THE OFFICERS.
III. The _President_ shall preside at all meetings of the Society
and of the Executive Committee; and shall deliver an address before
the Society, at the commencement of the annual meeting.
In case of the absence or other disability of the President, his
duties shall devolve on the Vice-President, by seniority, if present;
otherwise on such person as the meeting may appoint.
Members shall not be eligible to the office of President more than
once in five years.
IV. The _Corresponding Secretary_ shall have the charge and custody
of all letters and communications transmitted to the Society; and to
him they should be addressed. He shall prepare and transmit whatever
communications the Society or Executive Committee may direct; and he
shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him.
V. The _Recording Secretary_ shall give notice and keep a record of
all the meetings of the Society and of the Executive Committee. He
shall append to the notices of the annual and semi-annual meeting,
the names of those candidates for membership that have been reported
to the Executive Committee. He shall have charge of all papers and
communications belonging to the Society; and shall read, at the
meetings of the Society, all such communications as the Executive
Committee may direct. He shall notify the chairman of every committee
appointed by the Society or Executive Committee, of his appointment,
in each case stating the commission and the names of the committee.
On or before the first of April, annually, he shall transmit to the
Treasurer a list of all who have become members of the Society during
the year.
VI. The _Treasurer_ shall solicit and receive all money due to the
Society, together with all bequests and donations; and shall pay all
bills after they shall have been approved by the Executive Committee,
which approval shall be certified to by the Recording Secretary. He
shall keep an accurate account of all receipts and expenditures, and
shall give such bonds for the faithful performance of his duties as
the Society may require. He shall submit his accounts to such
examination as the Executive Committee may direct; and shall annually
make a statement of his doings, and of the state of the funds in his
hands, to the Society.
VII. The _Librarian_ shall have in his custody and charge all the
books and apparatus of the Society. He shall keep an accurate
register of the same, and arrange them in a proper manner; and shall
make such disposition of them, from time to time, as the Executive
Committee may direct for the benefit of the members. He shall receive
and record all donations made in his department to the Society, and
shall make a report at the annual meeting.
VIII. The _Censors_ shall examine the qualifications of all persons
presenting themselves for membership, and for that purpose shall hold
meetings on the days of annual and semi-annual meetings, and at such
other times as they may deem necessary. They shall report the names
of all approved candidates for membership to the Executive Committee
at least three months before their election as members by the Society.
IX. There shall be a _Committee on the Materia Medica,_ who shall
select medicines for proving; and shall, at the expense of the
Society, obtain and distribute the same to its members, or such other
persons as they may deem suitable. They shall receive and examine
communications upon the _materia medica_ from the members of the
Society, and report thereon at any regular meeting.
X. There shall be a _Committee on Clinical Medicine,_ who shall
receive and examine communications proper to this department, and
report thereon at any regular meeting. They shall also report upon
any epidemics which may have occurred in the state or country during
the year,--their characteristics, mode of treatment, and results; and
such other facts relating to the practice of medicine as they may
deem important.
XI. There shall be a _Committee of Publication_ consisting of the
President, Recording Secretary, and at least three other members, to
whom all matter for Publication shall be referred, and under whose
direction it shall be issued; the expense of which shall not exceed
in any year a sum designated by the Executive Committee.
XII. There shall be a _Committee of Arrangements_ whose duty shall
be to make such arrangements as will add to the interest and
importance of the annual and semi-annual meetings, such as selecting
a suitable place for the meetings, soliciting communications,
appointing subjects for discussion, providing refreshments for
members, &c., subject to the direction of the Executive Committee.
XIII. There shall be a _Committee on the Library,_ who shall select
and obtain such books and publications as they may be able to, by
donation, subscription, or purchase with funds set apart for that
purpose by the Executive Committee or Society.
XIV. The Executive and all other Committees shall have power to fill
their own vacancies.
MEMBERSHIP.
XV. Any person who has received the degree of Doctor of Medicine
from a legally authorized medical institution, who sustains a good
moral character, and practices medicine in accordance with the maxim,
_"Similia similibus curantur,"_ may become eligible to membership,
after having been examined and approved by the Board of Censors. He
shall be elected by ballot at the annual or semi-annual meeting, and,
after his election, shall sign the By-laws before becoming a member.
HONORARY AND CORRESPONDING MEMBERS.
XVI. Persons who have excelled, or made any great advancement in
medical or other science, may be elected honorary members and
physicians of eminence residing out of the State, may be elected
corresponding members of the Society by a two-thirds vote of the
members present at any stated meeting, provided the said person shall
have been approved by the Executive Committee. Honorary and
corresponding members shall be entitled to the diploma of the
Society, and to participate in its proceedings in meetings devoted to
scientific subjects.
XVII. Every member shall receive the diploma of the Society, signed
by the President and Secretary, for which he shall, upon his
election, pay the sum of five dollars.
XVIII. Any member in good standing shall have the privilege of
withdrawing from the Society, by giving notice, in writing, of such
intention, and paying all arrearages due to the Society.
RETIRED MEMBERS.
XIX. Members on removing from the State, or on retiring from
practice, may, provided all their dues to the Society are paid, by
vote of the Executive Committee, be placed on the list of retired
members, and as such, shall be exempt from any assessments, and shall
not receive, except by courtesy, any of the publications of the
Society, nor be entitled to speak or vote at any of its meetings.
XX. Any person who has resigned his membership, or been placed on
the list of retired members, may, on application in writing, be
reinstated by vote of the Society at any regular meeting.
Any member removing out of the State shall have liberty to retain
his membership, on paying his annual assessment.
XXI. Any member may be expelled from the Society, or, having
resigned his membership, may be deprived of his privileges, by a vote
of two-thirds of the members present at any regular meeting, upon
charges of the following description; provided the charge or charges
against him have first been considered by the Executive Committee,
and provided he has been notified of the same by the Secretary, and
an opportunity has thereby been given him to make his defence before
the Society:--
1. For any gross and notorious immorality or infamous crime under
the laws of the land.
2. For any attempt to subvert the objects or injure the reputation
of the Society.
3. For advertising, publicly vending, or pretending to the
knowledge and use of any secret nostrum.
4. For furnishing to any person, or presenting in his own behalf,
a false certificate of character and studies as a student of
medicine, tending to deceive the public, or the Censors of the Society.
5. For habitually furnishing advice or holding professional
consultations with persons who practice medicine without the
necessary acquirements to entitle them to the respect, confidence or
courtesy of the members of the Society.
XXII. As the object of the Society is to improve the science of
medicine, to increase the influence and usefulness of its members,
and to secure greater harmony and friendship among them, therefore it
is of the highest importance that each member should so conduct
himself, both in his private and professional life, as to command the
entire respect of his colleagues.
Every person who becomes a member is understood to take upon himself
an obligation to communicate to the Society any discoveries he shall
have made relating to the science of medicine or surgery, and to co-
operate in such measures as my be adopted by the Society for the
advancement of these sciences; and, on his refusal to do so, he shall
be subject to such censure as the Society, by a two-thirds vote,
shall inflict.
XXIII. Every member of the Society shall be assessed annually three
dollars ($3), and such other assessments as a majority of the
members, at any legal meeting, may determine.
DELEGATES.
XXIV. The Executive Committee may appoint delegates to other
Societies and Associations whenever they deem it advisable to do so;
and such delegates shall receive certificates of appointment from the
recording Secretary.
Accredited delegates from other Societies and Associations shall be
allowed to participate in the scientific deliberations of this Society.
MEETINGS OF THE SOCIETY.
XXV. The annual meeting of the Society shall be held on the second
Wednesday of April, and the semi-annual meeting on the second
Wednesday of October, at ten o'clock, A.M., in such one of the cities
or towns of the Commonwealth as the Executive Committee may
determine. A special meeting of the Society shall be called by the
President, on the written request of ten members, stating the object
of said meeting.
MEETINGS OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.
XXVI. The _Executive Committee_ shall meet on the third Wednesday of
April, July, October, and January. At the first or annual meeting the
Committees and the Orator shall be appointed for the ensuing year.
At the meetings of the Executive Committee, five persons shall
constitute a quorum. A special meeting of the Executive Committee
shall be called by the President, on the written application of three
of its members.
XXIII. All proposals for alteration of the By-Laws shall be
presented to the Society in writing, and shall be refereed, without
debate, to a special Committee, who shall consider and report on the
same at the next annual meeting of the Society.
FORM OF SUBSCRIPTION.
_The subscribers agree to comply with the By-Laws of the
Massachusetts Homoeopathic Medical Society._
MASSACHUSETTS HOMOEOPATHIC MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The SEMI-ANNUAL Meeting will be held in the Meionaon Hall, Tremont
Temple, Boston, on Wednesday, Oct. 12, 1864, at 10 o'clock A.M.
In the morning session, the following, among other papers will be
read.
THE EARLY HISTORY OF HOMOEOPATHY IN MASSACHUSETTS; by Samuel
Gregg, M.D.
VARIOUS OPERATIONS FOR CATARACT WITH RECENT MODIFICATIONS; by H.
C. Angell, M.D.
ON THE HYPODERMIC INJECTION OF MEDICINES HOMOEOPATHICALLY
INDICATED; by J. H. Woodbury, M.D.
Members are requested to prepare and present at this Session, papers
on any Medical Subject.
A collation will be provided between 12 and 1.
In the afternoon session the subject of discussion with be
DYSENTERY. As a _verbatim_ report of the discussion will be entered
on the records, members are requested to give, in a concise form
their observations in regard to this disease the present season; its
peculiar character and frequency, and the therapeutic action of any
medicines with their distinctive indications.
Any clinical reports may be forwarded to the _Committee on Clinical
Medicine,_ S. M. Cate, M.D. of Salem. Attention is called to the
importance of filling out the _Statistical Records_ and forwarding
them to Dr. Cate at the close of the year.
Any "medical provings" may be forwarded to the Chairman of the
Committee on _Materia Medica,_ H. L. Chase, M.D. of Cambridge.
The following persons have been approved for membership by the
Executive committee.
FOR HONORARY MEMBERS:
Constantine Herring, M.D. of Philadelphia; John F. Gray, M.D. of
New York; F. F. Quinn, M.D. of London; G. H. G. Jahr, M.D. of Paris;
J. Fleischmann, M.D. of Vienna.
FOR CORRESPONDING MEMBERS:
Wm. E. Paine, M.D. of Bath, Me.; Alpheus Morrill, M.D. of Concord,
N.H.; A. Howard Okie, M.D. of Providence, R.I.; Henry M. Paine, M.D.
of Clinton, N.Y.; Carroll Dunham, M.D. of New York City; C. Neidhard,
M.D. of Philadelphia; Walter Williamson, M.D. of Philadelphia; J.H.
Pulte, M.D. of Cincinnati, O.; R. Ludlam, M.D. of Chicago, Ill.; Wm.
T. Helsmith, M.D. of St. Louis, Mo.; Arthur Fisher, M.D. of Montreal,
C.W.
The Censors and Executive Committee will hold sessions for the
examination and approval of Candidates for membership.
I. T. Talbot, Recording Sec'y.
Boston, Oct. 4, 1864.
End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Act Of Incorporation And The
By-Laws Of The Massachusetts Homeopathic  Medical Society, by Massachusetts Homoeopathic Medical Society
