Produced by Jonathan Ingram, David Garcia and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team.
THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.
VOL. X, NO. 290.] SATURDAY, DECEMBER 29, 1827. [PRICE 2d.
*       *       *       *       *
OLD SARUM
[Illustration]
Among the earliest antiquarian records, Old Sarum is described as a city
of the Belgae; and its historical details have proved an exhaustless
mine for the researches of topographical illustrators.
Thus, Sir R.C. Hoare describes it as "a city of high note in the
remotest periods by the several barrows near it, and its proximity to
the two largest Druidical temples in England, namely, Stonehenge and
Abury."[1]
The Romans held it as a strong military station, and it was admitted
to the privileges of the Latin law, under the name of _Sorbiodunum;_[2]
Under the Saxons it ranked among the most considerable towns of the West
kingdom, and possessed ecclesiastical establishments soon after the
conversion of the Saxons to Christianity.[3]
In the early part of the ninth century it was the frequent residence of
Egbert; and in 960, Edgar assembled here a national council to devise
the best means of repelling the Danes in the north.[4]
Arthur commanded it to be more strongly fortified by another trench and
high palisadoes.[5]
In 1086, William the Norman convened in this city the prelates, nobles,
sheriffs, and knights of his new dominions, there to receive their
homage;[6] and probably, within its walls was framed the feudal law, as
Domesday Book was commenced in the same year.
Two other national councils were held here; one by William Rufus, in
1096, and another by Henry I in 1116.[7]
Peter of Blois, an early ecclesiastical writer, described Old Sarum as
"barren, dry, and solitary, exposed to the rage of the wind; and the
church (stands) as a captive on the hill where it was built, like the
ark of God shut up in the profane house of Baal."[8]
Such are a few of the chronological data of the principal events in the
history of Old Sarum; these, however, will suffice to elucidate the
antiquity of the city, and from their historical importance cannot fail
to make the preceding engraving a subject of general as well as of local
interest, especially as it represents the old city, previous to its
reduction in 553.
Scarcely a vestige of human habitation now remains of Old Sarum, as we
have shown once a place "of great importance--and a city adorned with
many proud structures--a splendid cathedral and other churches--a castle
with lofty towers and ramparts--regular streets and houses--and once the
residence of a numerous population." But all these have passed away, and
nought is left to tell the tale of their greatness, but a few crumbling
wrecks of massy walls; whilst vast fosses and elevated ramparts remain
to mark it as the site of desolating war. The contrast of time-worn
ruins with their surounding scenes of luxuriant nature is affecting even
to melancholy. A recent visiter to the area of Old Sarum describes "a
field of oats flourishing on the very spot where the crowded street had
formerly extended itself; and a barrier existing to the further progress
of agriculture, by the remains of the cathedral, castle, &c. forming
heaps of rubbish barely covered with scanty and unprofitable verdure."
The space occupied by the ancient city is stated to have been nearly
2,000 feet in diameter, surrounded with a fosse, or ditch, of immense
depth, and two ramparts, inner and outer: on the inner, which was much
higher than the outer, stood a wall nearly 12 feet thick at its
foundation, of flint and chalk, strongly cemented together, and cased
with hewn stone, on which was a parapet with battlements. In the centre,
on the summit of the hill, stood the castle or citadel, surrounded with
a very deep intrenchment and a high rampart; and in the area beneath,
forming a wide space between the inner and outer ramparts, stood the
city, divided into equal parts, north and south; near the middle of each
division was a gate--these two being the grand entrances, with a tower
and mole over and before each. Besides these were ten other towers, at
equal distances round the city; and opposite them, in a straight line
with the castle, were built the principal streets, intersected in the
middle with one grand circular street, encompassing the whole city. In
the angle to the north-west stood the cathedral, and episcopal palace,
and the houses of the clergy.
The area of the city was also divided into nearly equal parts by
intrenchments and ramparts thrown up, by which means if one part was
taken, the other was still defensible; and if the whole of the out-works
were in the hands of the enemy, the besieged could retire to the castle,
whose walls were impregnable. There appears to have been but one
entrance to the castle, on the east. There were five wells, four in the
city and one in the castle, designed chiefly to support the garrison and
inhabitants in time of war, or during a siege.
The decline of Sarum, which was very rapid, has been traced to a
disagreement between the civil and ecclesiastical authorities. During
the reign of Henry I. the bishop of Old Sarum, who rose to that dignity,
from being a parish priest at Caen, was entrusted with the keys of the
fortress. The bishop, however, fell into disgrace, the king resumed the
command of the castle, and the military openly insulted the disgraced
prelate and the clergy. These animosities increasing, the Empress Maude
bestowed many gifts upon the cathedral, and added much land to its grants.
Herbert, a subsequent bishop of the see, attempted to remove the
establishment, but its execution was reserved for his brother and
successor, Richard Poor, whose monument is in the south chancel of the
present cathedral at Salisbury. This was about the year 1217, from which
time the inhabitants of Old Sarum removed their residence, and pulled
down their dwellings, with the materials of which they constructed their
new habitations: and as one city increased in population and extent, so
the other almost as rapidly decayed. Hence the establishment of New
Sarum, or _Salisbury_.
In the reign of Edward II. Sarum possessed the privilege of sending two
members to parliament, a privilege which it still retains.
[1] "_Ancient Wilts_,"--Sir R.C. Hoare, speaking of _Stonehenge_,
expresses his opinion that "our earliest inhabitants were Celts,
who naturally introduced with them their own buildings customs,
rites, and religions ceremonies, and to them I attribute the
erection of Stonehenge, and the greater part of the sepulchral
memorials that still continue to render its environs so truly
interesting to the antiquary and historian." _Abury_, or
_Avebury_, is a village amidst the remains of an immense
temple, which for magnificence and extent is supposed to have
exceeded the more celebrated fabric of Stonehenge; Some
enthusiastic inquirers have however, carried their supposition
beyond probability, and in their zeal have even supposed them to
be _antediluvian_ labours! Many of the _barrows_ in the vicinity
of Sarum have been opened, and in them several antiquarian relics
have been discovered. In short, the whole county is one of high
antiquarian interest, and its history has been illustrated with
due fidelity and research.
[2] Richard of Cirericesler, p. 31, 68, 113.
[3] Cott. _Coll. Faustina_, b. 3, _MSS. Brit Mus._
[4] Brompton _Twysd._. 866.
[5] Dodsworth's _History of Salisbury Cathedral_.
[6] Roger de Hoveden.
[7] Ibid.
[8] Petrus Blesensis, _Epist_, 105.
*       *       *       *       *
CHRISTMAS CUSTOMS.
(_For the Mirror._)
The manner of spending _Christmas Eve_ can hardly be better
described than by the celebrated Wilkie's sketch under that title.
Christmas is not now what it was formerly. Wilkie's painting relates to
the present time, and I do not know where Christmas is more cheerfully
observed in these days than in London--still there is an alteration--no
boar's head--no pageantries, no wassailing. In the north of England
its approach is denoted by the country people having their wood fires,
consisting of huge pieces of stumps of trees piled upon the grate,
and by entwining branches of holly over their doors, and by _school
boys_ acting some play to a school full of auditors; the yearly one
at Brough was _St. George_, which is now put down by some strolling
players who exhibit in the town every Christmas.
These are signals for Christmas, and although there is but one Christmas
day, yet the week is generally over before any thing like quietness
appears. The morning is ushered in by the ringing of the _church
bells_, and the little maidens playing at the game of _prickey
sockey_, as they call it. See them all dressed up in their
_best_, with their wrists adorned with rows of _pins_, running
about from house to house inquiring who will play at the game. The door
is opened, and she cries out,
"Prickey Sockey, for a pin,
I CAR not whether I LOSS or win."
The game is played by the one holding between her two fore-fingers and
thumbs a pin, which she clasps tightly to prevent her antagonist seeing
either part of it, while her opponent _guesses_. The head of the
pin is _sockey_, and the point _prickey_, and when the other
guesses, she touches the end she guesses at, saying, _"this for
prickey_," or "_this for sockey_;" at night the other delivers
her two pins. Thus the game is played and when the clock strikes twelve
it is declared _up_, that is, no one can play after that time.
The Christmas dinner consists of large pork or goose pies, which Brand
mentions as peculiar to this county; the goose is put in whole; they are
all marked on the top by a fork with the owner's initials; formerly it
was a religious inscription. In the afternoon (be it spoken perhaps to
their shame) they sally forth for a game at foot-ball, the first day on
which the game is played, the ball is what they call _clubbed up
for_, and he who can run away with the ball may keep it; but this
seldom occurs, as it is kicked to pieces before the game is over. And
this is Christmas Day here. At Kirby, a man named _Tom Mattham_
(since deceased) used to go round the town on Christmas Eve, about
twelve o'clock, with a bell, and chant a few carols; this was too solemn
to be compared to the London waits, but the custom still exists.
In most of the western parts of Devonshire a superstitions custom
prevails, that on Christmas Eve, at twelve o'clock, oxen in their stalls
are always kneeling, as in the attitude of devotion; but since the style
was altered, they do this on Old Christmas Eve only. At Whitbeck, in
Cumberland, they have a similar superstition; the _bees_ are said
to sing on the midnight before Christmas Day, and the oxen to kneel at
the same hour.
In many parts of the north too it should be observed, it is customary
for men to go out and cut large ash and holly sticks and entwine them
over the doors of their houses. And in Cumberland, little maidens
assemble on Christmas to _guess who their husband shall be_, which
is done by collecting peculiar sticks, and looking for some singular
mark upon them. This is the time when sweethearts too send round their
presents to the young lasses, by whom others are returned.
The custom of keeping open house is, I think, obsolete. Haddon Hall (so
late as Queen Elizabeth) was kept open during twelve days after
Christmas, with the _old English_ hospitality. I observe also in
some old books accounts of a feast of "cakes and ales" being usual.[9]
In the book of _Christmasse Carolles_, by Wynkyn de Worde in 1521,
are the following verses on bringing in the Boar's head:--
"A Carrol bryngyne in the boar's head,
_Caput Apri defero._
_Redden laudes Domino._
"The bore's head in hande brynge I,
With garlaudes gay and rosemary
I praye you all synge merely,
_Qui estis in convivio._
"The bore's head I understande
Is the chefe servyce in this lande,
Looke wherever it be fand,
_Servite cum cantico._
"Be gladde both man and lasse
For this hath ordayned our stewarde
To chere you all this Christmasse
The bore's head with mustarde."
Upon the young prince's coronation, 1170, Henry II. "served his son at
the table as server, bringing up the _bore's head_ with _trumpets_
before it, according to the manner."--_Hollinshed_.
The boar's head was stuffed "_with branches of rosemary_, "it
appears with trumpets playing, so that "_it was a grande syghte_."
It would appear they had grand doings at the inns of court during
Christmas. The usual dish at the first course at dinner was "a large
_bore's head_ upon a silver platter, with minstralsye."--_Dugdale's
Orig. Jur._
Before the last civil wars, the first diet in gentlemen's houses that
was brought to table at Christmas was a _boar's head with a lemon in
his mouth_. At Queen's College, Oxford, the custom is retained; the
bearer of it brings it into the hall singing to an old tune, an old
Latin rhyme, _Caput Apri Defero, &c._
Formerly, "An English gentleman at the opening of the great day, i.e. on
Christmas Day in the morning, had all his tenants and neighbours enter
his hall by day-break. The strong beer was broached, and the black jacks
went plentifully about with toast, sugar, nutmeg, and good Cheshire
cheese. The hackin (the great sausage) must be boiled by day-break, or
else two young men must take the maiden (the cook) by the arms, and run
her round the market-place till she is ashamed of her laziness."--_From
an old Tract, "Round about our Coal Fire, or Christmas Entertainments_."
Further, from the same Tract we find that "In Christmas holidayes," the
tables were all spread from the first to the last; the sirloins of beef,
the minched pies, the _plum porridge_, the capons, turkeys, geese
and plum-puddings, were all brought upon the board, every one ate
heartily and was welcome, which gave rise to the proverb, "merry in the
hall, where beards wag all."
Misson says, "the plum-porridge is not at all inferior to the pie;" the
goose pie usually made at Christmas.
_Yule Cakes_.--I must now call your attention to the _Yule
Cakes_. Yule dough a little image of paste, was formerly baked at
_Yuletide_, and presented by bakers to their customers, as
_Christmas candles_ are given away by tallow chandlers. Brand
says, "the Yule dough has perhaps been intended for an image of the
child, Jesus, with the Virgin Mary," and he says, "it is now, if I
mistake not, pretty generally laid aside, or at most retained only by
children." Mr. Brand was not aware that the custom still prevailed in
many parts in the north. At Brough I have frequently ate of the cakes;
they are figured with currants, and are usually eaten with a basin of
frumity on Christmas Eve. Mince pies are there called _minched_, or
_shrid pies_.
The custom of decking our houses and churches with holly, &c. originates
from ancient heathenish practices. Mr. Brand says, that "_holly_
was used only to deck the inside of houses at Christmas, while
_ivy_ was used not only as a vintner's sign, but also among the
evergreens at funerals." Archdeacon Nares mentions "the custom longest
preserved, was the hanging up of a bush of mistletoe in the kitchen or
servant's hall, with the _charm_ attached to it, that the maid who
was not kissed under it at Christmas would not be married in that year."
In the north a similar custom is observed, viz. that of kissing a maiden
_over_ a bunch of holly. Polydore Virgil says, that "Trimmyng of
the temples with hangynges, flowers, boughs, and garlandes, was taken of
the heathen people, whiche decked their idols and houses with such
arraye."
_Round about our Coal Fire_.--Formerly fires were in the middle of
the room, and the company sat in a ring round about it, hence the
proverb, "round about our coal fire," which is as great a comfort as any
at Christmas.
In the north they have their _Yule log_, or _Yuletide log_,
which is a huge log burning in the chimney corner, whilst the Yule cakes
are baked on a "girdle," (a kind of frying pan) over the fire; little
lads and maidens assemble nightly at some neighbouring friend's to hear
the goblin story, and join in "fortune telling," or some game. There is
a part of an old song which runs thus: and with which I shall conclude
this custom
"Now all our neighbours chimnies smoke,
And _Christmas logs_ are burning,
Their ovens they with baked meate choke,
And all their spits are turning."
And in another place we hear that
"The wenches with their _wassell bowles_
About the streete are singing."
_Wassail-bowl_.--Formerly it was customary to _wassail_ on
Christmas Eve, or drink health to the apple trees.
"Wassaile the trees that they may beare
You many a plum and many a peare,
For more or lesse fruits they will bringe,
And do you give them wassailing."
HERRICK.
Sir Thomas Acland informed Mr. Brand, in 1790, that at Werington, on
Christmas Eve, "it was then customary for the country people to sing a
wassail or drinking song, and throw the toast from the wassail-bowl to
the apple-trees, in order to have a fruitful tree."
In many towns in Cumberland it is the practice on Christmas Eve to roast
apples before the fire on a string, and hold under them a bowl of spiced
ale (called there _mulled ale_) and let them roast on until they
drop into the ale.
We have the following picture of a country squire from Grose:--"His
chief drink the year round was generally ale, except at this season, the
fifth of November, or some other gala days, when he would make a bowl of
strong brandy punch, garnished with a toast and nutmeg. In the corner of
his hall by the fire-side stood a large wooden two-armed chair, and
within the chimney corner were a couple of seats. Here at Christmas he
entertained his tenants assembled round a globing fire made of the roots
of trees and other _great logs_, and told and heard the _traditionary
tales of the village_, respecting ghosts and witches, till fear made
them afraid to move. In the mean time the jorum of ale was in continual
circulation."
_Christmas Presents_.--A friend of mine at Appleby, in
Westmoreland, who is aware of my writing this article, says, "Pray
recollect the old custom we have here of making little presents one to
another. You know it is the practice here for little girls to send
numerous presents to their sweethearts, secured as tightly with _wax
and brown paper_ as can be, that they may be some time guessing what
it is before they open it. And if it is worth remarking, I would further
remind you of the sending of _shrid_ pies (which you know are very
excellent) as presents to neighbours."
In London enough is seen of the presents at Christmas, without
describing them; and after a "day spent merrily," they in the evening
commence card playing, which is kept up till morning, generally
speaking, and from thenceforth a whole run of merry days, till and
beyond Twelfth Day.
Soon after Christmas Day we are apprized of Twelfth Day (which keeps us
from dulness) by the icy cakes which everywhere appear in the
pastrycook's windows. And now I think I have as far as I am able
fulfilled my promise, and I may perhaps conclude this article with
wishing you and _all_ your readers and correspondents a merry
Christmas and a happy new year.
W.H.H.
[9] See MIRROR, p. 330.
*       *       *       *       *
RECOLLECTIONS OF MELROSE ABBEY.
(_For the Mirror._)
"I do love these ancient ruins;
We never tread upon them, but we set
Our foot upon some reverend history."
This fine ruin has a double interest attached to it, for, independent of
that which is created by the antiquity and splendour of the edifice, the
visiter should bear in mind that it is the _Kennaquhair_ of the
northern magician; and here the scenes so finely depicted in the
_Monastery_ are vividly brought to our recollection; it gives a
"local habitation and a name" to some of the most interesting creations
of Sir Walter Scott's genius. The abbey is situated in a valley,
surrounded by the Eildon hills. Some ruins of the abbey mill, with the
dam belonging to "Hob Miller," the father of the "lovely Mysinda," are
still to be seen; and the ford across the Tweed, where the worthy
Sacristan was played so scurvy a trick by the White Lady, is also
pointed out. Some miles off, on a wild and romantic spot on the course
of the river, Elwin, or Allan, is Fairy Dean, or Nameless Dean, which is
at once identified to be that place above the tower and vale of
Glendearg, which was the favourite haunt of the White Lady, and the spot
where Sir Piercie Shafton's _stoccatas_, _embroccatas_, and
_passados_ first failed him, when opposed to the less polished and
rustic skill of Halbert Glendinning, assisted by the machinations of the
queen of the elfin tribe. On this place are found a number of small
stones, of a singular shape and appearance, resembling guns, cradles
with children in them, bonnets, &c., several of which I obtained in a
tour to Scotland. They are called _elf-stones_ by the neighbouring
peasantry.
Many parts of the abbey are still in a state of tolerable preservation;
the marks of cannon-shot and fire are visible on the walls in some
places, the abbey having been bombarded by Oliver Cromwell, with his
usual zeal against every thing that adorned the country. Many Roman
medals of Vespasian, Adrian, &c. have been found about it. I hardly know
a more interesting place to visit than Melrose and its neighbourhood;
while the abbey affords a fine moral lesson on the instability and
perishableness of even the most magnificent works raised by human skill
and industry.
"Here naked stand the melancholy walls,
Lash'd by the wint'ry tempests, cold and bleak,
That whistle mournful through the empty aisles,
And piece-meal crumble down the towers to dust,"
When viewed by moonlight, the solemnity and grandeur of the effect is
charming. An enthusiastic friend of mine, on paying the abbey a visit a
year or two ago, had it lighted up with tapers. I subjoin a few passages
from a letter I received at the time from him;--"Yesterday, being
Valentine's day, in the evening I went to vespers, and had six tapers
burning at the high altar in the abbey; also several in each of the
(eight) confessionals, holy water, fonts, shrines, and altars.--The
church-yard, the abbey, were silent as the grave; you might have heard a
pin drop; there was not a breath of air stirring, so the tapers burnt,
beautifully." This must have strongly reminded the spectator of the
introduction to the _Monastery_, and the visit of the worthy
benedictine, accompanied by Captain Clutterbuck, for the purpose of
taking up his patron's heart. My friend adds, "not a taper has been
burnt in St. Mary's of Melrose since the days of Knox.--On Monday I went
to the tower of Glendearg; at the fountain, where Sir Piercie Shafton
and Halbert Glendinning fought, I got, with the help of my guide, some
curious stones, said to be the work of the _White Lady_." The
scenery is picturesque in the highest degree. "Yesterday I went to Old
Melrose. The windings of the Tweed there are beautiful; but the tolling
the abbey bell recalls me from my wanderings."
The impression made on Sir Walter Scott by the ruins may be inferred
from the following lines:--
"If thou would'st view fair Melrose aright,
Go visit it by the pale moonlight;
For the gay beams of lightsome day
Gild but to flout the ruins grey.
When the broken arches are black in night,
And each shafted oriel glimmers white;
When the cold light's uncertain shower
Streams on the ruin'd central tower,
When buttress and buttress, alternately,
Seem framed of ebon and ivory;
When silver edges the imagery,
And the scrolls that teach thee to live and die;
When distant Tweed is heard to rave,
And the owlet to hoot o'er the dead man's grave;
Then go--but go alone the while--
Then view St. David's ruin'd pile;
And home returning, soothly swear,
Was never scene so sad and fair!"
One of your correspondents (with whom I had once a disputation on the
_weighty_ subject of ghosts) sent you a version of the subjoined
epitaph, with a trifling alteration in the spelling, (which is copied
from a very ancient tomb-stone in Melrose Abbey,) with these remarks,
(see MIRROR, vol. 4, p. 392):--"The following beautiful lines were
written by a cow-boy [!] in Sussex on a wall, with a piece of red chalk,
[mark the precision.] They have only been inserted in a Sussex paper,
and may be quite unknown to many London readers," &c. &c. &c. This is a
regular hoax.
EPITAPH.
The earth goeth on the earth,
Glist'ring like Gold;
The earth goes to the earth sooner than it wold.
The earth builds on the earth castles and towers;
The earth says to the earth, all shall be ours.
Here the contemplative wanderer may pass many an hour, with profit and
pleasure,
"Mid epitaphs and tombs,
Wrapt in the dreams of other days."
HISTORY OF THE ABBEY.
I have arranged a few particulars of the history, &c. of this relic of
monkish times, which will form an appropriate conclusion to these
desultory remarks.
"Hail! ye bold turrets, and thou rev'rend pile,
That seem in age's hoary rest to smile!
All trail! for here creative fancy reads
Of ages past the long-forgotten deeds.
With trembling footsteps I approach thy gates,
The massy door upon the hinges grates!
Hark! as it opens what a hollow groan
'Cross the dark hall and down the aisles is thrown!"
SIR EGERTON BAYDGES.
It is handed down by tradition that an abbey was founded at Melrose
about the end of the sixth century. The famous St. Cuthbert was one of
the abbots in 643; he, however, left, and went to Holy Island, in
Northumberland. Many wonderful stories are related of St. Cuthbert; that
eleven years after his death in Holy Island, (in 687,) his body, on
being taken up, exhibited no marks of corruption, seeming as if asleep,
&c. &c. Ethelwold succeeded St. Cuthbert, and sometime after the
monastery was ruined by the Danes. The place where this abbey is
supposed to have stood is called Old Melrose, and is a mile and a half
from the present abbey.
Melrose Abbey was founded by king David of Scotland in 1136. It is
supposed to have been built in ten years. The church of the convent was
dedicated to St. Mary on the 28th of July, 1146. It was the mother
church of the Cistertian order in Scotland. The monks were brought from
Rievaulx Abbey, in Yorkshire. Their habit was white; and they soon
superseded the order of the Benedictines.
The abbey is built in the form of St. John's cross, of the Gothic style
of architecture, and is 258 feet in length; the breadth 137-1/2 feet;
and 943 feet in circumference. A considerable part of the principal
tower is now in ruins; its present height is 84 feet. There are many
very superb windows; the principal one at the east end (which is the top
nave of the cross,) appears to have been more recently built than the
others, and is 57 feet in extreme height, and 28 feet wide. It has been
ornamented with statues, &c. The beauty of the carved work, with which
the abbey is profusely decorated, is seldom equalled, and deservedly
celebrated:
"Spreading herbs and flow'rets bright,
Glisten'd with the dew of night;
Nor herb nor flow'ret glisten'd there,
But was carved in the cloister'd arches as fair."
There are in the external view of the building 50 windows, 4 doors, 54
niches, and above 50 buttresses. The abbey was much injured by the
English in 1322 and 1384. Richard II. made it a grant in 1389, as some
compensation for the injuries it had sustained in the retreat of his
army. It was also greatly defaced during the reformation. A stronger
proof of their infatuated and (partly) misplaced zeal cannot be adduced,
than the destruction of religious edifices by the reformers. There were
one hundred monks, without including the abbot and dignitaries. The last
abbot was James Stuart, natural son of James V., who died in 1559. The
privileges and possessions of the abbey were very extensive,.and it was
endowed by its founder, David, with the lands of Melrose, Eildon, &c.,
&c., right of fishery on the Tweed, &c.; and succeeding monarchs
increased its property. Sixty of the monks, it is said, renounced popery
at the reformation. In 1542, the revenue of the abbey was, "1758_l_.
in money, 14 chalders nine bolls of wheat, 56 chal. 5 bolls of barley,
78 chal. 13 bolls of meal, 44 chal. 10 bolls of oats, 84 capons, 620
poultry, 105 stone of butter, 8 chal. of salt, 340 loads of peats, and
500 carriages;" besides 60 bolls of corn, 300 barrels of ale, and 18
hogsheads of wine, for the service of the mass: a large quantity for the
entertainment of strangers; 4,000_l_. for the care of the sick; and
400_l_. to the barber. These were given up at the commencement of the
reformation in 1561. The lands were either seized by the crown, or
divided amongst the nobles. A large portion fell into the hands of the
Buccleugh family.
A stone coffin, supposed to be that of the famous Michael Scott, the
wizard, was found in the small aisle on the south of the chancel in
1812. It was authenticated that his remains had been laid here. There
was an altar erected to say mass for his soul. The length of the
skeleton was six feet. A stone head at the foot of the coffin bears a
very rude wizard-like appearance. Alexander II. and many of the Scottish
kings and nobles are buried here. The best view is obtained of the
building from the south east, which, indeed, commands the whole of the
ruin. The village contains 500 or 600 inhabitants, and is 35 miles
distant from Edinburgh. The remains of several Roman camps are to be
seen in its neighbourhood, and one of the hills bears the marks of
having been a volcano. Sir Walter Scott's residence at Abbotsford is
within a few miles.
VYVYAN.
*       *       *       *       *
ON WAITS.
(_To the Editor of the Mirror_.)
MR. EDITOR,--It may not be unacceptable to many of your readers to
receive some elucidation of a custom which is still prevalent at the
present season. I allude to the waits, who visit us in the month of
December, with instrumental music, going from house to house.
_Waites_, or _waits_, formerly _wayghtes_ is derived from
the latter noun, and originally signified _hautbois_, (or hautbois,
as we have it in English,) of which it is not unworthy remark, there is
no singular number. From the instrument its signification was, after a
time, transferred to the performers themselves; concerning whom, it is
well known,.the appellation is now applied to all who follow the
practice above adverted to, especially those who, at the approach of.
Christmas, salute us with their nightly concerts.
The _wayghtes_ of ancient times were, as some historians say, so
called, because they attended or _waited_ on potentates, judges,
magistrates, and bodies corporate, pomp and processions, &c.; they were
also sometimes appointed to keep a sort of Watch at night, and were then
generally decorated with superb dresses, splendid cloaks, &c. In Rymers'
_Fardera_ there is an account of such an establishment, of the
minstrels and _waites_ who were in the service of the court of
Edward IV., wherein is mentioned "a _waite_ that nighteleye, from
Michaelmas to Shrove Thorsday, pipeth the watch within this court;" "i.
fewer times, in the somere nightes iij. times." Todd derives the term
waits from _wahts_, (Goth.) nocturnal itinerant musicians,
(Beaumont and Fletcher;) Bayley, on account of their waiting on
magistrates, &c.; or of _guet_, a watch; or from the French
_guetter_, to watch, because anciently they kept a sort of watch a
night. From what I have narrated, then, it appears that the persons
formerly called waites, or waits, were _musical_ watchmen, the word
implying _obees_. They were, in fact, minstrels, at first annexed
to the king's court, who sounded the watch every night; and in towns
paraded the streets during winter, to prevent theft, &c. At Exeter they
were set up, with a regular salary, in 1400; and although suppressed by
the Puritans, were reinstated in 1660. M.A. Boyer, in his _French and
English Dictionary_, Rivington. 1747, under the word _waits_, s.
has the following: "in the French, _sorte de hautbois_, (ho-boy,)
corresponding with the signification of the term waits, as itinerant or
wandering (music or) musicians. These nocturnal perambulators, it seems,
were anciently called, as they now are, waits; and persons, bearing the
same name, still go about our streets during the month of December,
(previous to the 25th.) Whatsoever may be the reasons or the motives of
those (maunderers) who _now_ call _themselves waits_, I must
leave for the consideration of such as are favoured with their visits. I
am of opinion it can have neither allusion nor similitude to the
Christmas carol as some have suggested, which was an imitation, however
humble, of 'The glory to God on high,' &c., as sung by the angels who
hovered over the fields of Bethlehem on the morning of our Saviour's
nativity." It is true, indeed, that our modern angels, _the waits_
of 1897, have _hovered about_, and _they may_ (without a pun)
be styled angels (of darkness), not only on account of the watch they
keep _a nights_, but on account of those _spirit-uous propensities_,
for the attainment of which, principally, some have supposed, _we_ are
_indebted_ to _them_ for _their waits_, and also for their _wait-ing_
upon us on the day ycleped boxing-day.
But to return to our subject; independent of the origin of the waits, or
of the persons so called, as relates to the institution in England,
which is, comparatively, of modern date, _it appears there were
peculiar to the Romans_ a description of individuals, who, in their
offices and character, answered to our waits, and from whom there is no
doubt the latter were derived; these, among the Romans, were called
_spondaulae_, from which I conceive the _waightes_, or _waites_,
of our ancient kings were borrowed. The _Roman waites_, or _spondaulae_,
were a description of vocal and instrumental musicians, who performed a
hymn, whose measure consisted of spondees, (a poetic foot, formed of two
long syllables,) which was sung, accompanied by the flute, or other wind
instrument, while the priest offered the sacrifice, and the incense was
burning, to procure the favour of the gods; the waits, or spondaulae,
continuing their music, to prevent the priest from hearing sounds of ill
omen, which might disturb the ceremony, or divert his attention. It has
been suggested, in this view of the origin of the waits, which many
writers consider to be the real source of the custom, that they are
altogether anti-christian, and of heathen and idolatrous foundation, and
of consequence have neither allusion to, nor connexion with, our
festivities at Christmas _at any period_.
City Road.
L. DESORMEAUX.
*       *       *       *       *
ORIGIN OF LOVE.
FROM THE MADRIGALS OF GUARINI.
(_For the Mirror_.)
Cupid one day, in luckless hour,
Observed a bee from flow'r to flow'r,
Hurrying on busy wing;
Thinking to gain the honied prize,
He strove the insect to surprise,
But quickly felt its sting.
Fired with revenge, he flew away
To where asleep my Julia lay,
On mossy bank reclin'd;
And while he sought relief to sip,
By kisses from her balmy lip,
He left the sting behind.
Thus if I now, in hours of bliss,
From her sweet mouth should steal a kiss,
I after feel the smart;
For when her rosy lips I've press'd,
And think myself supremely blest,
I bear the sting at heart!
E.L.J.
*       *       *       *       *
TOTTENHAM HIGH CROSS.
(_For the Mirror_.)
On entering Tottenham, on the right from London, is to be seen the
following inscription over eight alms-houses:--
1600.
Not vnto vs,
O Lord--
Not vnto vs--But
vnto thy name
give ye glorie.
_Ps. 115, v. i._
"Balthaza Zanchez, born in Spain, in the citie of Shere, in Estramadvra,
is the fownder of these eyght Alma-Houses for the relieefe of eyght
poore men and women of the Town of Tattenham High Crasse."
The founder of these alms-houses, Balthazar Zanches, was confectioner to
Philip II. of Spain, with whom he came over to England, and was the
first who exercised that art in this country. He became a Protestant,
and died in 1602. It is said that he lived in the house, now the George
and Vulture Inn; at the entrance of which he had fixed the arms of
England, in a garter, supported by a lion and griffin, and with the
initials E.R.: over another door, 1587.
Among the ancient possessors of the manor of Tottenham, was Robert
Bruce, king of Scotland, from whom the Manor-House obtained the name of
Bruce Castle, which it still retains.--At the end of Page Green stands a
remarkable circular clump of elms, called the Seven Sisters; and on the
west side of the great road is St. Loy's well, which is said to be
always full, and never to run over; and opposite the vicarage house
rises a spring, called Bishop's Well, of which the common people report
many strange cures.
*       *       *       *       *
ARCANA OF SCIENCE.
*       *       *       *       *
_Outline of the History of Gas Lighting._
"What a striking contrast between the appearance of the brilliantly
illuminated streets at this time, compared with the days of Henry V. It
is recorded, that in 1417, Sir Henry Barton, mayor of London, ordained
'lanterns with lights to bee hanged out on the winter evenings between
Hallowtide and Candlemasse.' Paris was first lighted by an order issued
in 1524; and in the beginning of the sixteenth century, the streets
being infested with robbers, the inhabitants were ordered to keep lights
burning in the windows of all such houses as fronted the streets. In
1668, when some regulations were made for improving the streets of
London, the inhabitants were reminded to hang out their lanterns at the
usual time; and in 1690 an order was issued to hang out a light, or
lamp, every night as soon as it was dark, from Michaelmas to Christmas.
By an act of the common council in 1716, all housekeepers, whose houses
fronted any street, lane, or passage, were required to hang out, every
dark night, one or more lights, to burn from six to eleven o'clock,
under the penalty of one shilling. In 1736, the lord mayor and common
council applied to parliament for an act to enable them to erect lamps;
and in 1744 they obtained farther powers for lighting the city.
Birmingham was first lighted by lamps in 1733, so that in this
improvement it preceded the metropolis."--_Beckman's History of
Inventions_.
It may not be disagreeable to our readers to trace the brilliant lights
by which the streets are illuminated, from the obscure recesses of
nature, and to show by what steps that which was once thought simply an
object of curiosity, has been applied to a practical purpose of the most
useful and agreeable kind.
The inflammable gases were known originally for their direful effects
rather than their useful qualities. Miners were acquainted with two of
them, called the _choke damp_ and the _fire damp_, long before
the establishment of the Royal Society; but the earliest printed account
of either occurs in its Transactions, in the year 1667. The paper in
which it is contained, is entitled, "A Description of a Well and Earth
in Lancashire taking Fire, by a Candle approaching to it. Imparted by
Thomas Shirley, Esq an eye-witness."
Dr. Stephen Hales was the first person who procured an elastic fluid
from the actual distillation of coal. His experiments with this object
are related in the first volume of his Vegetable Statics, published in
1726. From the distillation of "one hundred and fifty-eight grains of
Newcastle coal, he states that he obtained one hundred and eighty cubic
inches of air, which weighed fifty-one grains, being nearly one third of
the whole." The inflammability of the fluid he thus produced was no part
of his inquiry; and though it is now deemed its most useful and
important property, appears to have excited no attention till several
years after.
In the "Philosophical Transactions" for 1733, some properties of
coal-gas are detailed in a paper called, "An Account of the Damp Air in
a Coal-pit of Sir James Lowther, sunk within Twenty Yards of the Sea."
This paper, as it contains some striking facts relating to the
inflammability and other properties of coal-gas, is deserving of
particular attention.
The principal properties of coal-gas are here related with remarkable
minuteness and precision; and as the writer exhibited them to different
members of the Royal Society, and showed that after keeping the gas
sometime, it still retained its elasticity and inflammability, it is
remarkable, that the philosophers of the time undertook no experiments
with the view of applying it to useful purposes.
Dr. John Clayton, in an extract from a letter in the "Philosophical
Transactions" for 1735, calls gas the "spirit" of coal; and came to a
knowledge of its inflammability by an accident. This "spirit" chanced to
catch fire, by coming in contact with a candle, as it was escaping from
a fracture in one of his distillatory vessels. By preserving the gas in
bladders, he frequently diverted his friends, by exhibiting its
inflammability. This is the nearest approach to the idea of practically
applying this property.
The subject attracted the attention of Dr. Richard Watson, who published
the results of his researches in the second volume of his "Chemical
Essays." He dwells upon the elasticity and inflammability of coal-gas;
and remarked, that it retains these properties _after passing through
a great quantity of water_.
The man who first applied the inflammability of gas to the purposes of
illumination, was Mr. Murdoch. This gentleman, residing at Soho, near
Birmingham, that hot-bed of ingenuity and mechanical science, on
occasion of the celebration of the peace of 1802, covered the works of
Soho with a light and splendour that astonished and delighted all the
population of the surrounding country. Mr. Murdoch had not attained to
this perfection without having had many difficulties to encounter. In
the year 1792, he used coal gas for lighting his house and offices, at
Redruth, in Cornwall; and in 1797 he again made a similar use of it at
Old Cunnock, in Ayrshire. At Soho, he constructed an apparatus which
enabled him to exhibit his plan on a larger scale than any he had
heretofore attempted. His experiments were then seduously continued,
with the able assistance of Mr. Southern and Mr. Henry Creighton, with
a view to ascertain not only the best modes of making, but also of
purifying and burning gas, so as to prevent either the smell or the
smoke from being offensive.
Previous to the public display made of the illuminating properties of
gas, at Soho, it had been applied to similar purposes, by a M. Le Bon,
of Paris. A friend of the gentlemen at Soho, wrote from Paris a letter,
dated November 8, 1801, to that establishment, informing them, that a
person had lighted up his house and gardens with the gas obtained from
wood and coal, and had it in contemplation to light up the city of
Paris. This is an important fact in the detail of the history of
gas-lighting; and we should be glad of further information respecting
the steps which led M. Le Bon to the results which he appears to have
obtained, and also respecting the fortunes which subsequently attended
the invention in France. However, M. Le Bon's exhibitions have a
remarkable connexion with the progress of the invention in England: they
seem, indeed, almost to have diverted it from its natural course, which
certainly would have led from the illumination at Soho to its public
adoption.
In 1804, Dr. Henry delivered a course of lectures on chemistry, at
Manchester, in which he showed the mode of producing gas from coal, and
the facility and advantage of its use. Dr, Henry analyzed the
composition and investigated the properties of carburetted hydrogen gas.
His experiments were numerous and accurate, and made upon a variety of
substances; and having obtained the gas from wood, peat, different kinds
of coal, oil, wax, &c. he endeavoured to estimate the relative quantity
of light yielded by each.
In 1805, Mr. Samuel Clegg, to whom the world is much indebted for the
improvements he subsequently introduced into the manufacture of gas,
having left Soho, directed his attention to the construction of gas
apparatus. The first he erected was in the cotton mill of Mr. H Lodge,
near Halifax, in Yorkshire. Mr. Josiah Pemberton, one of those ingenious
men happily not rare in the centre of our manufactures, whose minds are
perpetually employed on the improvement of mechanical contrivances, and
who, as soon as they have accomplished one discovery, leave others to
reap the benefit, and themselves pursue the chase alter new inventions,
had for some time been experimenting on the nature of gas. A resident of
Birmingham, his attention was probably roused by the exhibition at Soho;
and such was the fertility of his invention, and his practical skill as
a mechanic, that it has been observed by those who know him, that he
never undertook to make an article without inventing an improvement in
its construction. About 1806, he exhibited gas-lights in a variety of
forms, and with great brilliance, at the front of his manufactory in
Birmingham.
In 1808 he constructed an apparatus, applicable to several uses, for Mr.
Benjamin Cooke, a manufacturer of brass tubes, gilt toys, and other
articles. In 1808, Mr. Murdoch communicated to the Royal Society a very
interesting account of his successful application of coal gas to
lighting the extensive establishment of Messrs. Phillips and Lea. For
this communication, Count Rumford's gold medal was presented to him. Mr.
Murdoch's statements threw great light on the comparative advantage of
gas and candles, and contained much useful information on the expenses
of production and management.
Early in 1809, Mr. Samuel Clegg communicated to the Society of Arts his
plan of an apparatus for lighting manufactories with gas, for which he
received a silver medal. In this year also, Mr. Clegg erected a gas
apparatus in Mr. Harris's manufactory at Coventry.
It was natural to suppose that all these circumstances should eventually
produce an impression on the country; consequently about this time much
attention was excited towards gas-lighting, and much utility anticipated
from a general application of it to public purposes. In this year 1809,
accordingly, the first application was made to parliament for an act to
incorporate a company, with the view of carrying on its processes more
effectually and beneficially. The movers in this project were some of
the more intelligent and persevering subscribers to a New Light and Heat
Company, projected by Mr. Winsor. They were opposed by some on the
ground of their designs being visionary and fraught with danger; and by
Mr. Murdoch on the plea of priority of invention, which entitled him to
exclusive privileges if he chose to avail himself of them. This gave
rise to a long and minute investigation of the subject before a committee
of the House of Commons. The application terminated unsuccessfully; and
the testimony of Mr. Aceum, exposed him to the animadversions of Mr.
Brougham. In 1810, however, the application was renewed by the same
parties, and though some opposition was encountered, and considerable
expense incurred, the bill passed, but not without great alterations;
and the present London and Westminster Chartered Gas-Light and Coke
Company was established. The proceedings of this company after the act
was obtained comprise a most important period in the history of this
invention. During the first few years of their operations large sums of
money were expended in experiments, and very few beneficial results were
obtained. The undertaking was complicated and difficult, and not only
required the guidance of experience, but the assistance of a scientific
education and a fertile invention. These requisites were found in the
person of Mr. Samuel Clegg, under whose able direction and
superintendence the principal works of the company, at their different
stations, were erected. From this period various improvements were
gradually introduced into almost every part of the apparatus. In 1816,
Mr. Clegg obtained the patent for his horizontal rotative retort; his
apparatus for purifying coal gas with cream of lime; for his rotative
gas meter; and self-acting governor; and altogether by his exertions the
London and Westminster Company's affairs assumed a new and flattering
aspect.
For reasons which are not assigned, in 1817, Mr. Clegg retired from the
service of this establishment.
In this year, 1817, at the three stations belonging to the Chartered Gas
Company, twenty-five chaldron of coal were daily carbonized, producing
300,000 cubic feet of gas, which was equal to the supply of 75,000
Argand lamps, each yielding the light of six candles. At the City Gas
Works, in Dorset-street, Black-friars, the quantity of coal daily
carbonized amounted to, three chaldron, which afforded a quantity of gas
adequate to the supply of 1,500 Argand lamps; so that twenty-eight
chaldron of coal were daily carbonized at that time, and 76,500 lights
supplied by those two companies only.
At this period the principal object of attention in the manufacture of
gas was its purification. Mr. D. Wilson, of Dublin, took out a patent
for purifying coal gas by means of the chemical action of ammoniacal
gas. Another plan was devised by Mr. Reuben Phillips, of Exeter, who
obtained a patent for the purification of coal gas by the use of dry
lime. Mr. G. Holworthy, in 1818, took out a patent for a method of
purifying it by causing the gas, in a highly-condensed state, to pass
through iron retorts heated to a dark red. For this object and several
others, having in view improvements upon the ordinary method, many other
patents were procured.
OIL gas now appeared in the field as a rival of COAL gas. In 1815, Mr.
John Taylor had obtained a patent for an apparatus for the decomposition
of _oil_ and other animal substances; but the circumstance which
more particularly attracted the public attention to be directed to
_oil_ gas was the erection of the patent apparatus at Apothecary's
Hall, by Messrs. Taylors and Martineau; and the way was prepared for an
application to parliament for the establishment of an Oil Gas Company by
sundry papers in journals, and by the recommendations of Sir William
Congreve, who had been employed by the Secretary of State to inspect the
state of the gas manufactories in the metropolis. This application, made
in the year 1825, proved unfortunate.
In Sir William's Reports is the following account, beginning with the
London Gas-Light and Coke Company:--
At the Peter-street station the whole number of the retorts which they
had fixed was 300; the greatest number working at any time daring the
last year, 22l; the least 87. Fifteen gasometers, varying in dimensions,
the contents computed on an average at 20,626 cubic feet each, amounting
to 309,385 cubic feet altogether; but never quite filled; the working
contents estimated at 18,626 cubic feet each--in the whole at 279,390
cubic feet. The extent of mains belonging to this station is about
fifty-seven miles, there being two separate mains in some of the
streets; the produce of gas from 10,000 to 12,000 cubic feet from a
chaldron of coals. The weekly consumption of coal is reckoned at 42
bushels for each retort, amounting to about 602 chaldrons; and taking
the average number of retorts worked at this station at about 153, would
give an annual consumption of coals of upwards of 9,282 chaldrons,
producing 111,384,000 cubic feet of gas.
The average number of lights during the year 1822 was 10,660 private,
2,248 street lamps, theatres, 3,894.
At the Brick-lane works, the number of retorts which were fixed was 371,
the greatest number worked 217, and the least 60. The number of
gasometers 12, each averaging 18,427 cubic feet, amounting in the whole
to 221,131 cubic feet; and their average working contents 197,124 cubic
feet. The average number of retorts worked was 133; the coals consumed
8,060 chaldrons; the quantity of gas produced 96,720.000 cubic feet; the
number of lamps 1,978 public, 7,366 private, through 40 miles of mains.
At the Curtain-road establishment the whole number of retorts was 240;
the greatest number worked in the last year 80; the lowest 21. The
number of gasometers 6, average contents of each 15,077 cubic feet; the
contents of the whole 90,467; another gasometer containing 16,655 cubic
feet; the average number of retorts worked 55; the coals consumed 3,336
chaldrons; quantity of gas produced 40,040,000 cubic feet; the number of
lamps supplied 3,860 private, and 629 public, through 25 miles of mains.
The whole annual consumption of coals by the three different stations
was 20,678; the quantity of gas produced 248,000,000 cubic feet: the
whole number of lamps lighted by this company 30,735, through 122 miles
of mains.
The City of London Gas-Light Company, Dorset-street:--The number of
retorts fixed 230; the number of gasometers 6; the largest 39,270 cubic
feet, the smallest 5,428 cubic feet; two large additional gasometers
nearly completed, contents of each 27,030 cubic feet, making in the
whole 181,282 cubic feet. The number of lamps lighted 5,423 private, and
2,413 public, through 50 miles of mains. The greatest number of retorts
worked at a time (in 1811) 130, the least 110, average 170. The quantity
of coals carbonized amounted to 8,840 chaldrons; produced 106,080,000
cubic feet of gas.
The South London Gas-Light and Coke Company, at Bankside:--The number of
retorts was 140; gasometers 3; the contents of the whole 41,110 cubic
feet; and their mains from 30 to 40 miles in length. At their other
station in Wellington-street, they had then no retorts in action; but
three large gasometers were erected, containing together 73,565 cubic
feet, which were supplied from Bankside till the retorts were ready to
work.
The Imperial Gas-Light and Coke Company were erecting at their Hackney
station two gasometers of 10,000 cubic feet each, and about to erect
four more of the same size. At their Pancras station they had marked out
ground for six gasometers of 10,000 cubic feet each.
In the year 1814, there was only _one_ gasometer in Peter-street,
of 14,000 cubic feet, belonging to the Chartered Gas-Light Company, then
the only company established in London. At present there are four great
companies, having altogether 47 gasometers at work, capable of
containing in the whole 917,940 cubic feet of gas, supplied by 1,315
retorts, and these consuming 33,000 chaldron of coals in the year, and
producing 41,000 chaldron of coke. The whole quantity of gas generated
annually being upwards of 397,000,000 cubic feet, by which 61,203
private, and 7,268 public or street lamps are lighted in the metropolis.
In addition to these great companies, there are several private
companies, whose operations are not included in the foregoing
statements.--_Abridged from Matthews's History of Gas-Lighting, and
the London Magazine, Dec. 1827_.
*       *       *       *       *
SPIRIT OF THE
PUBLIC JOURNALS.
*       *       *       *       *
LONDON LYRICS.
MAGOG'S PROPHECY.
Pastor cum traheret per freta navibus.
HOR. _lib._ i. _od._ 15.
As late, of civic glory vain,
The Lord Mayor drove down Mincing-lane,
The progress of the baimer'd train
To lengthen, not to shorten:
Gigantic Magog, vex'd with heat,
Thus to be made the rabble's treat,
Check'd the long march in Tower-street,
To tell his Lordship's fortune.
"Go, man thy barge for Whitehall Stair;
Salute th' Exchequer Barons there,
Then summon round thy civic chair
To dinner Whigs and Tories--
Bid Dukes and Earls thy hustings climb;
But mark my work, Matthias Prime,
Ere the tenth hour the scythe of Time
Shall amputate, thy glories.
"Alas! what loads of food I see,
What Turbots from the Zuyder Zee,
What Calipash, what Calipee,
What Salad and what Mustard:
Heads of the Church and limbs of Law,
Vendors of Calico and Straw,
Extend one sympathetic jaw
To swallow Cake and Custard.
"Thine armour'd Knights their steeds discard'
To quaff thy wine 'through helmet barr'd,'
While K.C.B.'s, with bosoms starr'd,
Within their circle wedge thee.
Even now I see thee standing up,
Raise to thy lip 'the loving cup,'
Intent its ruby tide to sup,
And bid thy hearers pledge thee.
"But, ah! how fleeting thy renown!
Thus treading on the heel of Brown;
How vain thy spangled suit, thy gown
Intended for three waiters:
Ere Lansdowne's speech is at an end,
I see a board of lamps descend,
Whose orbs in bright confusion blend,
And strew the floor with splinters.
"Their smooth contents spread far and near,
And in one tide impetuous smear
Knight, Waiter, Liveryman, and Peer:
Nay, even his Royal Highness
The falling board no longer props,
Owns, with amaze, the unwelcome drops
And, premature anointment, swaps
For oozy wet his dryness.
"Fear shrieks in many a varied tone,
Pale Beauty mourns her spotted zone,
And heads and bleeding knuckles own
The glittering prostration.
Behold! thou wip'st thy crimson chin,
And all is discord, all is din;
While scalded waiters swear thee in
With many an execration.
"Yet, Lucas, smile in Fortune's spite;
Dark mornings often change to bright;
Ne'er shall this omen harm a wight
So active and so clever.
How buoyant, how elastic thou!
With a lamp halo round thy brow,
Prophetic Magog dubs thee now
A Lighter man--than ever."
_New Monthly Magazine._
*       *       *       *       *
ROYAL APPETITES.
Charles XII. was brave, noble, generous, and disinterested,--a complete
hero, in fact, and a regular fire-eater. Yet, in spite of these
qualifications and the eulogiums of his biographer, it is pretty evident
to those who impartially consider the career of this potentate, that he
was by no means of a sane mind. In short, to speak plainly, he was mad,
and deserved a strait-waistcoat as richly as any straw-crowned monarch
in Bedlam. A single instance, in _my_ opinion, fully substantiates
this. I allude to his absurd freak at Frederickshall, when, in order to
discover how long he could exist without nourishment, he abstained from
all kinds of food for more than seventy hours! Now, would any man in his
senses have done this? Would Louis XVIII., for instance, that wise and
ever-to-be-lamented monarch? Had it been the _reverse_ indeed--had
Charles, instead of practising starvation, adopted the opposite
expedient, and endeavoured to ascertain the greatest possible quantity
of meat, fruit, bread, wine, vegetables, Sec. &c. he could have
_disposed of_ in any given time--why then it might have been
something! But to _fast_ for three days! if this be not madness--!
Indeed, there is but one reason I could ever conceive for a person not
eating; and that is, when, like poor Count Ugolino and his family, he
can get _nothing to eat_!
Charles, now, and Louis--what a contrast! The first despised the
pleasures of the table, abjured wine, and would, I dare say, just
as soon have been without "a distinguishing taste" as with it. Your
Bourbon, on the contrary, a five-mealed man, quaffing right Falernian
night and day; and wisely esteeming the gratification of his palate of
such importance, as absolutely to send from Lisle to Paris--distance
of I know not how many score leagues--at a crisis, too, of peculiar
difficulty--for a single _pte_! "Go," cried the illustrious exile to
his messenger; "dispatch, _mon enfant_! Mount the _tricolor_! Shout
_Vive le Diable_! Any thing! But be sure you clutch the precious
compound! Napoleon has driven me from my throne; but he cannot deprive
me of my appetite!" Here was courage! I challenge the most enthusiastic
admirer of Charles to produce a similar instance of indifference to
danger!
There is another trait in the character of Louis which equally demands
our admiration, and proves that the indomitable firmness may be
sometimes associated with the most sensitive and--I had almost
said--infantine sensibility. Of course, it will be perceived that I
allude to the peculiar tenderness by which that amiable prince was often
betrayed, even into tears, upon occasions when ordinary minds would have
manifested comparative _nonchalance_. I have been assured that Louis
absolutely wept once at Hartwell, _merely because oysters were out of
season_!--a testaceous production, to which he was remarkably
attached, (whence his cognomen of _Des Hutres_, by corruption
_Dix-huit_;) so much so, indeed, as to be literally _ready to
eat them_, whenever they were brought into his presence. It is said
that this worthy descendant of the Good _Henr_ used to put a
barrel of Colchester oysters daily _hors de combat_, merely to
_give him an appetite_.
_Monthly Magazine._
*       *       *       *       *
PORSON AND SHERIDAIT.
The worst effect of "the scholar's melancholy," is when it leads a man,
from a distrust of himself, to seek for low company, or to forget it by
matching below himself. Porson, from not liking the restraints, or not
possessing the exterior recommendations of good society, addicted
himself to the lowest indulgences, spent his days and nights in
cider-cellars and pot-houses, cared not with whom or where he was, so
that he had somebody to talk to and something to drink, "from humble
porter to imperial tokay," (_a liquid_, according to his own pun,)
and fell a martyr, in all likelihood, to what in the first instance was
pure _mauvaise honte_. Nothing could overcome this propensity to
low society and sotting, but the having something to do, which required
his whole attention and faculties; and then he shut himself up for weeks
together in his chambers, or at the university, to collate old
manuscripts, or edite a Greek tragedy, or expose a grave pedant, without
seeing a single boon companion, or touching a glass of wine. I saw him
once at the London Institution with a large patch of coarse brown paper
on his nose, the skirts of his rusty black coat hung with cob-webs, and
talking in a tone of suavity approaching to condescension to one of the
managers. It is a pity that men should so lose themselves from a certain
awkwardness and rusticity at the outset. But did not Sheridan make the
same melancholy ending, and run the same fatal career, though in a
higher and more brilliant circle? He did; and though not from exactly
the same cause, (for no one could accuse Sheridan's purple nose and
flashing eye of a bashfulness--"modest as morning when she coldly eyes
the youthful Phoebus!") yet it was perhaps from one nearly allied to it,
namely, the want of that noble independence and confidence in its own
resources which should distinguish genius, and the dangerous ambition to
get sponsors and vouchers for it in persons of rank and fashion. The
affectation of the society of lords is as mean and low-minded as the
love of that of cobblers and tapsters. It is that cobblers and tapsters
may admire, that we wish to be seen in the company of _their_
betters.
_New Monthly Magazine_
*       *       *       *       *
THE "STAY-AT-HOME."
I'll never dwell among the Caffres;
I'll never willing cross the Line,
Where Neptune, 'mid the tarry laughers,
Dips broiling landsmen in the brine.
I'll never go to New South Wales,
Nor hunt for glory at the Pole--
To feed the sharks, or catch the whales,
Or tempt a Lapland lady's soul.
I'll never willing stir an ell
Beyond old England's chalky border,
To steal or smuggle, buy or sell,
To drink cheap wine, or beg an Order.
Let those do so who long for claret,
Let those, who'd kiss a Frenchman's--toes;
I'll not drink vinegar, nor Star it,
For any he that wears a nose.
I'll not go lounge out life in Calais,
To dine at half a franc a head;
To hut like rats in lanes and alleys--
To eat an exile's gritty bread.
To flirt with shoeless Seraphinas,
To shrink at every ruffian's shako;
Without a pair of shirts between us,
Morn, noon, and night to smell tobacco;
To live my days in Gallic hovels,
Untouched by water since the flood;
To wade through streets, where famine grovels
In hunger, frippery, and mud.
_Monthly Magazine._
*       *       *       *       *
THE SELECTOR;
AND
LITERARY NOTICES OF
NEW WORKS.
*       *       *       *       *
ART OF DRINKING WINE
The order of taking wine at dinner has not been sufficiently observed in
this country. "There is," as the immortal bard beautifully expresses it,
"a reason in roasting eggs;" and if there is a _rationale_ of
eating, why should there not be a system of drinking? The red wines
should _always_ precede the white, except in the case of a French
dinner, when the oysters should have a libation of Chablis, or Sauterne.
I do not approve of white Hermitage with oysters. The Burgundies should
follow--the purple Chambertin or odorous Romanee. A single glass of
Champagne or Hock, or any other white wine, may then intervene between
the Cote Rotie and Hermitage; and last, not least in our dear love,
should come the cool and sweet-scented Claret. With the creams and the
ices should come the Malaga, Rivesaltes, or Grenache; nor with these
will Sherry or Madeira harmonize ill. Last of all, should Champagne boil
up in argent foam, and be sanctified by an offering of Tokay, poured
from a glass so small, that you might fancy it formed of diamond.
_Literary Pocket-Book._
*       *       *       *       *
STRATFORD-ON-AVON.
I was detained at Stratford nearly two hours, and endeavoured to see
whatever I could, in so short a time, relative to Shakspeare. The clean,
quiet, _uncommercial_ appearance of the town pleased me; but I was
interested beyond expression on seeing the great poet's house. When I
entered the untenanted room where he first drew the breath of this
world, I took off my hat with, I hope, an unaffected sentiment of
homage. The walls and ceiling of this chamber are covered with names and
votive inscriptions, among which I saw the signatures of Sir Walter
Scott, Mr. Lockhaft, Washington Irving, and many others familiar to me,
foreigners as well as English. I did not sign _my_ name, for I felt
that it had no right in such a place; but I brought away a minute relic,
in the shape of a bit of rotten wood, pinched from the beam that
supports the chimney.
From the birth-place of the illustrious man, I found my way to his
corpse-place; and never had I beheld so beautiful and venerable a
church, or so tranquil and lovely a spot. The approach to the edifice,
which is situated at some distance from the town, upon the banks of the
fresh and murmuring Avon, is through an avenue of lime-trees, the
branches of which are interlaced _archwise_, as Lord Bacon would
say, so as to form a green canopy of some length. The scenery is not
what is called _romantic_, but soft and quiet, and calculated,
above all things, to surround the tomb of the genial poet of human
nature.
I was determined to get into the church, though it was so early; and,
accordingly, after a little trouble, I found out the sexton, a fine old
fellow, with a Saxon name, who was munching his breakfast in a large
old-fashioned room with latticed casements, half kitchen and half
parlour. But he was too busy with his meal to be disturbed; and
accordingly he sent his wife with me to open the church, and I believe
our footsteps were the first which had that morning disturbed the holy
silence of the place. The building is very fine, and even stately; but
the interest connected with Shakspeare absorbs all other feelings, and
monopolizes one's admiration. I stood under his monument, on the very
stone of his grave. * * *
_Ibid._
*       *       *       *       *
THE GATHERER.
"I am but a _Gatherer_ and disposer of other men's
stuff."--_Wotton._
*       *       *       *       *
LORD RUSSEL.
When my Lord Russel was on the scaffold, and preparing to be beheaded,
he took his watch out of his pocket and gave it to Dr. Burnet, who
assisted his devotions, with this observation: "My time-piece may be of
service to you: I have no further occasion for it. My thoughts are fixed
on eternity."
*       *       *       *       *
EPITAPH ON A SCOLD.
Here lies my wife; and heaven knows,
Not less for mine than her repose!
*       *       *       *       *
ON A MAN WHOSE NAME WAS PENNY.
Reader, if in cash thou art in want of any,
Dig four feet deep and thou shalt find A PENNY.
*       *       *       *       *
DRAMATIC SKETCH OF A THIN MAN.
A long lean man, with all his limbs rambling--no way to reduce him
to compass, unless you could double him like a pocket rule--with his
arms spread, he'd lie on the bed of Ware like a cross on a Good Friday
bun--standing still, he is a pilaster without a base--he appears rolled
out or run up against a wall--so thin that his front face is but the
moiety of a profile--if he stands cross-legged, he looks like a
Caduceus, and put him in a fencing attitude, you would take him for
a piece of chevaux-de-frise--to make any use of him, it must be as a
spontoon or a fishing-rod--when his wife's by, he follows like a note
of admiration--see them together, one's a mast and the other all
hulk--she's a dome, and he's built together like a glass-house--when
they part, you wonder to see the steeple separate from the chancel,
and were they to embrace, he must hang round her neck like a skein
of thread on a lace-maker's bolster--to sing her praise, you should
choose a rondeau; and to celebrate him, you must write all
Alexandrines.--_Sheridan's MSS. in Moore's Life of him._
*       *       *       *       *
A man of words and not of deeds,
Is like a garden full of seeds.
*       *       *       *       *
STOLEN GOODS.
A Negro in Jamaica was tried for theft, and ordered to be flogged. He
begged to be heard, which being granted, he asked--"If white man buy
tolen goods why he be no flogged too?" "Well," said the judge, "so he
would." "Dere, den," replied Mungo, "is my Massa, he buy _tolen goods,
he knew me tolen, and yet he buy me."--Elgin Courier._
*       *       *       *       *
DECREASE OF LUNACY IN LONDON.
According to the Parliamentary Returns in May, 1819, the total number
of lunatics comprised in the circle of London and different private
asylums, amounted to 2,005, which Dr. Burrows calculates as proving an
increase of only five on an average in twenty years, notwithstanding the
increase of our population. The late Dr. Heberden and Dr. Willan both
concurred in this statement. The large district of Mary-la-bonne, which
some years ago comprehended the greatest proportion of inhabitants in
the metropolis, not less than 80,000,--from 1814 to the year 1819
received only 180 female lunatics, and 118 males.
*       *       *       *       *
INGREDIENTS OF MODERN LOVE.
Twenty glances, twenty tears,
Twenty hopes, and twenty fears,
Twenty times assail your door,
And if denied, come twenty more,
Twenty letters perfumed sweet,
Twenty nods in every street,
Twenty oaths, and twenty lies,
Twenty smiles, and twenty sighs,
Twenty times in jealous rage,
Twenty beauties to engage,
Twenty tales to whisper low,
Twenty billet-doux to show,
Twenty times a day to pass,
Before a flattering looking-glass,
Twenty times to stop your coach,
With twenty words of fond reproach,
Twenty days of keen vexation,
Twenty opera assignations,
Twenty nights behind the scenes,
To dangle after mimic queens,
Twenty such lovers may be found,
Sighing for twenty thousand pounds,
But take my word, ye girls of sense,
You'll find them not worth twenty-pence.
*       *       *       *       *
GREAT AND SMALL.
A shopkeeper at Poncaster had, for his virtues, obtained the name of the
_little rascal_. A stranger asked him why this application was
given him? "To distinguish me from the rest of my trade," quoth he,
"who are all _great rascals_."
C.F.E.
*       *       *       *       *
THE LAW, PROFESSORS OF, IN ENGLAND:--
Counsel                                936
Special Pleaders below the Bar          49
Conveyancers                            90
London Attorneys                     2,146
Country Attorneys                    5,200
___________
Total     8,421
_Law List_
*       *       *       *       *
EPIGRAM FROM THE SPANISH OF REBOLLEDO.
(_For the Mirror_.)
Fair Phillis has fifty times registered vows,
That of Christian or Turk, she would ne'er be the spouse,
For wedlock so much she disdain'd,
And neither of these she has married, 'tis true,
For now she's the wife of a wealthy old _Jew_;
And thus she her vow has maintain'd!
E.L.J.
*       *       *       *       *
THE LAWYER AND HIS CLIENT.
Two lawyers, when a knotty cause was o'er,
Shook hands and were as good friends as before,
"Zounds!" says the losing client, "how come yaw
To be such friends, who were such foes just naw?"
"Thou fool," says one, "we lawyers tho' so keen,
Like shears, ne'er cut ourselves, but what's between."
*       *       *       *       *
LIMBIRD'S EDITION OF THE
BRITISH NOVELIST, Publishing in Monthly Parts, price 6d. each.--Each
Novel will be complete in itself, and may be purchased separately.
_The following Novels are already Published_:
s. d.
Goldsmith's Vicar of Wakefield        0 10
The Mysteries of Udolpho              3  6
Mackenzie's Man of Feeling            0  6
Rasselas                              0  8
Paul and Virginia                     0  6
The Old English Baron                 1  8
The Castle of Otranto                 0  6
The Romance of the Forest             1  8
Almoran and Hamet                     0  6
Elizabeth, or the Exiles of Siberia   0  6
Nature and Art                        0  8
The Italian                           2  0
A Simple Story                        1  4
The Castles of Athlin and Dunbayne    0  6
Sicilian Romance                      1  0
The Man of the World                  1  0
Zeluco, by Dr. Moore                  2  0
Joseph Andrews                        1  6
Humphry Clinker                       1  8
Edward, by Dr. Moore                  2  6
*       *       *       *       *
Published by J. LIMBIRD, 143, Strand, London, and Sold by all
Booksellers and Newsmen.
*       *       *       *       *
End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Mirror of Literature, Amusement,
and Instruction, No. 290, by Various
