Produced by Juliet Sutherland, Emmy and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team.(www.pgdp.net)
_FIVE CENTS._
THE GREAT ROUND WORLD
AND WHAT IS GOING ON IN IT
SUBSCRIPTION PRICE. MAY 20, 1897  Vol. 1. NO. 28
$2.50 PER YEAR
[Entered at Post Office, New York City, as second-class matter]
[Illustration]
A WEEKLY NEWSPAPER FOR BOYS AND GIRLS
WILLIAM BEVERLEY HARISON. PUBLISHER
NO. 3 AND 5 WEST 18TH ST. NEW YORK CITY
=Copyright, 1897, by WILLIAM BEVERLEY HARISON.=
*       *       *       *       *
AS A
=SPECIAL INDUCEMENT=
for our subscribers to interest others in "The Great Round
World," we will give to each subscriber who sends us $2.50 to
pay for a year's subscription to a new name, a copy of
=Rand, McNally & Co.=
=1897 Atlas of the World.=
=160 pages of colored maps from new plates, size 11 1/2 x 14
inches, printed on special paper with marginal index, and well
worth its regular price - - - - $2.50.=
Every one has some sort of an atlas, doubtless, but an old atlas is no
better than an old directory; countries do not move away, as do people,
but they do change and our knowledge of them increases, and this atlas,
made in 1897 from =new= plates, is perfect and up to date and covers every
point on
=The Great Round World.=
Those not subscribers should secure the subscription of a friend and remit
$5 to cover it and their own. A copy of the atlas will be sent to either
address.
*       *       *       *       *
GREAT ROUND WORLD,
_3 and 5 West 18th Street, . . . . . . . .New York City._
*       *       *       *       *
=Revised List, with Prices, of School-Books that will be taken in Exchange
for Subscriptions to "The Great Round World."=
READERS
Appleton's Primer            5
"      First            10
"      Second           10
"      Third            10
"      Fourth           15
"      Fifth            25
Baldwin's Classics          10
Barnes' First               10
"     Second              10
"     Third               15
"     Fourth              20
"     Fifth               25
Butler's First               5
"    Second              10
"    Third               15
Cyr's Primer                10
"    First                 10
"    Second                10
"    Third                 15
Davis' First                 5
"    Second               10
"    Third                15
Eggleston's Great Americans 15
Eng. Classics (Am. Bk. Co.) 10
Gilmour's Revised First      5
"         "    Second    10
"         "    Third     10
"         "    Fourth    20
Harper's New First          10
"       "  Second         10
"       "  Third          15
"       "  Fourth         20
"       "  Fifth          30
Hazen's First               10
"     Second              10
"     Third               15
"     Fourth              20
"     Fifth               25
"     Child's First Book  10
Holmes' New First            5
"      "  Second          10
"      "  Third           15
"      "  Fourth          20
"      "  Fifth           20
Interstate First            10
"      Second           10
"      Third            15
King's First Book           20
"     Second "             20
"     Third  "             20
"     Fourth "             20
Lippincott's First           5
"       Second         10
McGuffey's Revised Primer    5
"          "    First     5
"          "    Second   10
"          "    Third    15
"          "    Fourth   15
Monroe's New Primer          5
"       "  First          10
"       "  Second         10
"       "  Third          15
New Franklin Primer          5
"     "     First          10
"     "     Second         10
"     "     Third          15
"     "     Fourth         20
"     "     Fifth          25
New Graded First             5
"    "    Second           10
"    "    Third            15
Pollard's Revised Primer     5
"         "    First      8
"         "    Second    10
"         "    Third     15
Sheldon & Co.'s First        5
"         Second      10
"         Third       15
"         Fourth      15
Stickney's New First         5
"       "  Second       10
"       "  Third        10
"       "  Fourth       15
"       "  Fifth        20
Swinton's Primer            10
"      First             10
"      Second            15
"      Third             20
"      Fourth            20
"      Fifth             25
Thompson's                  10
Union First                  5
"   Second                 5
Watson's First               5
"      Second             10
Werner's Primer             10
SPELLERS
Babcock's                     5
Bailey's Scholar's Compan.   10
Farrell's Grammar School     10
Gilbert's School Studies      5
Graves' (cloth cover)        10
Harrington's Complete         5
McGuffey's Revised            5
Monroe's                      5
Morse's                      10
New American Primary          5
"     "     Pronouncing      5
Patterson's Com. School       5
Reed's Word Lessons          10
Swinton's Word Primer         5
"       "   Book           5
Town's Word Analysis         10
Watson's Complete             5
HISTORIES
Allen's Rome                             35
Anderson's New General                   45
"       "    Gram. Sch. (N.Y. ed.)   25
"  Eng. (1895 or later)              35
Barnes' Primary U.S.                     15
"     Brief (after 1890)               35
"     General                          60
Eggleston's First Book                   20
"       Large U.S.                   35
Fiske's                                  35
Gardiner's England                       35
Greene's Short Hist. of Eng.             40
Hansell's History                        20
Hendrick's Empire State                  15
Higginson's (after 1895)                 30
"       England                     30
Johnston's Shorter U.S.                  20
"      Larger   "                    35
Montgomery's Begins. U.S.                20
"       Large    "                  35
"       France                      35
"       England                     35
Mowry's U.S.                             30
Myer's Greece                            35
"    Rome                              35
Myer's Medieval                          50
"    General                           50
"    Ancient                           50
Parley's Universal (718 pp.)             25
Ploetz' Epitome                          40
Pratt's History Stories                  10
Sheldon's Amer. History                  30
"     General   "                    40
Swinton's Outlines  "                    40
"     N. School "                    30
Thomas' United States                    30
ARITHMETICS
Atwood's, Part 1                        10
"       "   2                        15
Bailey's Mental                         10
Barnes' National                        20
Bradbury's Practical (with Answers)     20
Brooks' New Series                      15
Butler's, Part 1                         5
"  New Practical                     20
Davies' Written                         10
"     New Practical                   20
"     University                      25
Fish's, Part 1 (Am. B'k. Co.)           10
"      "  2    "     "               20
Franklin, Part 1                        15
"      "   2                        25
Greenleaf's Common School               15
"       Complete (with Answers)     20
Milnes' Elementary                      15
"    Standard                        25
Prince's, Parts, each                   10
"     Practical                     25
Ray's New Primary                        5
"     "  Elementary                    10
"     "  Practical                     20
"     "  Higher                        25
Robinson's Rudiments                    15
"      Practical                    20
"      Higher                       25
Sanford's Primary                       10
"     Common School                 20
"     Higher                        25
Sheldon's Elementary                    10
*       *       *       *       *
=Send by Prepaid Express, put your name and address in package also full
list of the books. All books must be clean and perfect.=
_We can use new issues of all standard text books. Send list with titles
and dates._
*       *       *       *       *
[Illustration: THE GREAT ROUND
WORLD
AND WHAT IS GOING ON IN IT.]
VOL. 1   MAY 20, 1897.   NO. 28
On Saturday, May 1st, the Tennessee Centennial Exposition was formally
opened.
The object of this Exposition is to celebrate the anniversary of the
admission of the State of Tennessee into the Union, one hundred years ago.
Tennessee is the first State thus to celebrate its centennial.
The ceremonies at the opening of the Exposition were very simple; they
had, however, one interesting feature.
After the Governor of the State and other important persons had spoken,
Mr. Thomas, the President of the Exposition company, came forward and
dictated the following telegram:
"To the President of the United States of America, Washington, D.C.
"The people of the State of Tennessee send greetings, and request that you
now put in motion the machinery of the Tennessee Centennial Exposition."
There was a pause after the message was flashed over the wire. The people
waited breathlessly, and then, amidst tremendous applause, the machinery
began to move. President McKinley had received the message and answered
it.
To make this great feat possible, wires had been laid, connecting the
Exposition with Washington; and they had been so arranged that the
pressure of the President's finger on an electric button would start the
current and put the machinery in motion.
Like the World's Fair, the Tennessee Exposition was not quite completed
when opened; but it appears to be a great success from an artistic
standpoint.
The various buildings are modelled after the most celebrated specimens of
Greek and Roman architecture. The grounds are beautifully laid out, and
the spot selected for the Fair abounds in natural beauties which the
gardeners have used to the very best advantage.
One of the wonders of the Fair is the great see-saw.
This is described as being an iron tower seventy-five feet high, across
which a great beam of iron is balanced. To each end of this a large car is
attached; and the beam see-saws, lifting the cars up and down. When one
car is on the ground, the other is lifted ever so high up in the air.
Each car is made to hold fifty people.
The see-saw is not allowed to move quickly, for fear of frightening
people, but is arranged so that it lifts the cars very slowly into the
air, gives the passengers a good opportunity to look at the magnificent
view of the surrounding country, and then carries them gently down to the
ground again, with a motion so slight that it can hardly be felt.
*       *       *       *       *
The Leeward Isles have just been visited by a series of earthquakes,
which have been felt throughout the entire chain of islands.
The Leeward Islands are a part of the group of islands which form the West
Indies. They are in the Caribbean Sea, and lie to the southeast of Cuba.
The first shocks were felt on April 22d, and continued throughout the
entire week. The most severe quakings were felt three days later, when
great damage was done.
The people of Antigua were so badly frightened that all business was
brought to a standstill. Special services were held in the churches; and
when the shocks had passed over, a thanksgiving was offered to the
Almighty.
So great was the terror throughout the islands that the people deserted
the land, and went to sea in small boats. But even the sea was unfriendly
to them, for the earthquake was accompanied by a tidal wave, which wrecked
many of the small craft. The seas rose to a great height, and swept over
the land, doing much damage.
Hundreds of people are supposed to have been killed during this
catastrophe, but the full extent of the damage is not yet known.
*       *       *       *       *
Hawaiian affairs are occupying a good deal of attention at this time.
In No. 26 of THE GREAT ROUND WORLD, we spoke of the invasion by Japanese
immigrants, and how the government of the Sandwich Islands sent the last
few shiploads back to their own country.
The Japanese are extremely indignant at this action on the part of
Hawaii.
The newspapers in Japan are calling upon the government to send war-ships
to teach the Hawaiians that Japan insists upon fair treatment for her
citizens.
In Japan, there is some talk of sending the emigrants back to Hawaii, with
a demand that they be permitted to land. It is suggested that the Japanese
Minister in Honolulu shall demand money damages from the Hawaiian
government if these emigrants are refused the right of entry.
The Japanese think that the action of the Hawaiian government was
suggested by the United States, and that it is only the first step to the
annexation of these islands by us.
Japan declares herself opposed to such a union, and will do her best to
prevent it.
The Japanese in the islands have become very bold and defiant.
They have been holding mass-meetings, and denouncing the action of the
government in very strong terms.
It would seem that the Hawaiian government had acted none too soon in the
Japanese immigration question, for, were the Japanese stronger in numbers,
the indications are that they would try and take possession of the
Sandwich Islands for themselves.
The cruiser _Philadelphia_ has arrived in Honolulu. She has been sent to
this post to protect our citizens in the islands, in case of trouble with
Japan.
The _Marion_ is also stationed at Hawaii, and the Secretary of State
considers the situation so serious that he will keep two of our
war-vessels on duty there, until all fear of disturbance is passed.
The people of Hawaii, as we have already told you, are most anxious to be
annexed to the United States; and it appears as if President McKinley were
willing to consider the proposal, though he has said nothing publicly to
that effect.
It is, however, fully understood that he will take no steps whatever until
after the Tariff Bill has been disposed of.
In Hawaii, they seem to be expecting that each incoming steamer will bring
a Minister from the United States, who will be authorized to conclude the
annexation treaty.
A story is told that an officer of the Hawaiian National Guard wished to
resign his commission. The President of the Hawaiian Islands, Mr. Dole,
hearing of it, urged him to remain.
The officer said he had seen enough service, and would prefer to retire
and make way for a younger man.
The President is said to have answered him:
"I shall consider it a personal favor if you will remain until after the
annexation."
"How long will that be?" asked the officer.
"It is very close at hand," was the President's reply.
This looks as if we would have great news from the Sandwich Islands ere
long.
This probability of annexation explains the reason why Queen Liliuokalani,
the Queen of the Sandwich Islands, has been in Washington this winter.
You remember that we told you how President Cleveland tried to restore to
her her lost throne, and that he failed to do so.
When the Queen arrived in Washington this season it was at once supposed
that she had come for some purpose; and either intended to make friends
with the incoming President, or to persuade Mr. Cleveland to make one more
effort to help her before he went out of office.
Her suite and advisers kept their counsel so closely, that no one could
find out the true reason for her visit. A few days ago, however, her
secretary stated that the Queen considered that the republican form of
government in the Islands could not last much longer.
She said that it had been hurriedly established when she gave up her
throne, and that the people are tired of it.
She declares further that it is this knowledge that is making President
Dole so very anxious for annexation.
She thinks that if the United States was made aware of the way in which
she was deprived of her throne, and also of the manner in which the Dole
government was established, there would be no further talk of annexation,
but that our government would help her to regain her throne.
Queen Liliuokalani is apparently in this country so that when the subject
of annexation comes up she may be on hand, and have an opportunity to
state her case to the Government.
Much interesting news about Hawaii has been brought out by these recent
events.
Col. R.H. McLean, who has just returned from the Sandwich Islands, where
he has been reorganizing the Hawaiian army, gives a very amusing account
of the state of things he found there.
He went to Honolulu in 1895, just after the insurrection to restore Queen
Liliuokalani was over.
On his arrival at the palace he found it fortified as if for a siege; the
grounds were bristling with big guns, which were all loaded, and ready for
instant firing.
Eighteen sentries were on duty, and 200 men were sleeping on their arms in
the basement of the building, while 100 more were ready to rush into
action at a moment's notice.
A thorough soldier himself, and accustomed to see such preparations only
in time of war, Colonel McLean asked what was the matter.
He expected to hear that there was a new revolt; but he was merely told
that the Queen was a prisoner inside the palace, and that unless these
precautions were taken, another rebellion might break out at any moment.
He had been previously told that the citizens were in a state of panic,
and that the natives were sullen and discontented. He thought there might
be some grounds for the fear of a revolt, and decided that he had better
examine his defences.
Walking round among the guns, he noticed that they were pointed at various
groups of houses. He asked what these buildings were that lay in the line
of fire.
"Just houses," he was told. "Residences."
"Do rebels or suspected rebels live in them?" he asked.
"Why, no," he was told. "Citizens."
The Colonel was so astonished at this that he did not know what to say.
He didn't wonder that the people were dissatisfied and frightened.
For months they had lived with the knowledge that the big guns were
trained upon them, and that at any moment a careless or frightened soldier
might pull the lanyard, fire a cannon off, and blow half Honolulu to
smithereens.
He did not say much, but felt that he would have to make many changes in
affairs, and went to bed to think things over.
He was awakened in the middle of the night by cries of:
"Hi! hi! hi! there! Say! It's half-past two."
It took him some time to realize that this was the soldierly manner in
which the Hawaiian army changed the guard, and when the truth finally
dawned upon him, he laughed himself to sleep over the comic army he was
called upon to reorganize and train.
The next day, to the horror of the people in the palace, he removed the
guns, and reduced the number of sentries to four.
There was a terrible outcry against this order. Those in the palace
declared their lives were no longer safe. The first night after guns and
sentries were taken away, they passed a night of terror, no one apparently
expecting to live to see the morning.
When, however, morning came, and they were all alive, they calmed down a
little.
So did the townspeople, when the guns were taken away.
When the Colonel made arrangements whereby the imprisoned Queen could get
a little fresh air daily, and no terrible consequences followed, he became
the most popular person in Honolulu.
The government decided that Colonel McLean was a wonder for quieting the
citizens. The citizens were grateful to him for having had sense enough to
remove the guns; the supporters of the Queen liked him for making matters
more comfortable for her; and the army found that he knew what he was
about, and trusted him accordingly.
Colonel McLean has had three years of very hard work getting the soldiers
into order, but has left the army in a very different condition from that
in which he found it.
*       *       *       *       *
The State Department has sent to Mr. Uhl, the United States Ambassador to
Germany, directing him to make a demand on the German Government for the
release of an American citizen named Mayer, who has been wrongfully forced
to serve in the German army.
This matter is of interest to us, because it shows us our rights as
citizens.
The father of this Mayer was a German citizen who came to this country,
lived here for a good number of years, and returned to his native land
when his son was between eleven and twelve years old.
The elder Mayer never took out his naturalization papers, and therefore
remained a citizen of Germany.
The younger Mayer was nevertheless an American citizen because he was born
here, and this is the point that interests us.
According to our law, all persons who are born within the boundaries of
the United States are American citizens. The nationality of the parents
makes no difference whatever, nor does it signify whether the father was a
citizen or not. The mere fact of being born in this country is sufficient
to make a man an American citizen. The United States claims him, and
protects him if he needs protection.
When young Mayer's parents went hack to Germany they educated their boy in
German schools, and he grew up as a German boy.
When he came to be twenty-one years of age he was ordered to serve his
time in the German army. He refused to do this, on the ground that he was
an American citizen.
He was nevertheless claimed by the authorities and forced to join the
army.
In Germany there is a law, that every young man who reaches the age of
twenty-one must go into the army and serve as a soldier for two years.
The very day the young Germans come of age they are bound to offer
themselves for military service.
In many of the towns, advertisements are put in the newspapers giving the
names of the lads who are nearing the age of twenty-one, and telling them
where to report for duty.
In other places the military authorities send each young man an order to
report for duty on the morning of his birthday.
There is no avoiding this service, which was formerly for three years, but
has been changed to two.
The young men who do not answer the call are searched for, and, when
found, slightly punished.
Lads who are in foreign countries are ordered home. If they do not report
for military service within a certain space of time, they are punished
with an extra year of service.
When young Mayer was forced to join the German army, he appealed to the
American Government to help him.
When the matter was brought to their attention, the German authorities
denied the right of the United States to interfere, saying that Mayer was
the son of a German subject, and therefore was a German citizen.
This Government has, however, made a formal demand for the release of
Mayer, and there is little doubt that the request will be complied with.
*       *       *       *       *
The trouble is not yet over for the trusts. You remember about the
Investigating Committee appointed to look into the affairs of the
different trusts. The members of this committee had a good deal of trouble
with the Sugar Trust.
Seven of the most important persons connected with the trust refused to
answer the questions asked them by the committee.
Among these men were such prominent persons as Henry O. Havemeyer and John
E. Searles, men who are known as Sugar Kings.
The impossibility of getting any information from these witnesses made the
work of the committee very difficult; and when the investigations were
over, complaints were made against the men who had given the trouble.
One of them, Mr. E.E. Chapman, a stock-broker, was arrested by the United
States Marshal, taken to Washington, and tried for contempt.
His offence was that of breaking the law which binds witnesses to give
their testimony before Committees of Congress with the same care that they
have to exercise before the judges in the courts of law. A witness in a
law court who refuses to obey the court is guilty of contempt of court,
and can be fined or imprisoned as the court pleases.
Mr. Chapman was found guilty of this misdemeanor, and sentenced to thirty
days' imprisonment.
Having disposed of Mr. Chapman's case, the United States District Attorney
has sent word that he intends to try the other six refractory witnesses on
May 17th. From the printed accounts at the time of the investigation, they
all seem to have given as much trouble as they possibly could, and as Mr.
Chapman has been found guilty, the chances are that the others will be
also, and that the jail of the District of Columbia may contain some
distinguished millionaires before the month is out.
If we are to have Investigation Committees, it is just as well that people
should learn they are not to be trifled with.
*       *       *       *       *
New York has just had a visit from Chief Joseph of the Nez Perces Indians.
Next to the old Sioux warrior, Red Cloud, Chief Joseph is the most
prominent Indian alive to-day.
He came to New York at the special request of General Miles, and seemed to
be much interested in seeing the sights.
His real business East was in Washington.
He came on from the Indian Reservation in Washington Territory, where he
lives with 150 of his tribe, to ask permission to join the main body of
the Nez Perces in Idaho.
There are 1,000 of the Nez Perces in Idaho, and it is the dearest wish of
the old chief's heart that he, and the remnant of the tribe that is with
him, may be allowed to go back and end their days in their old homes.
General Miles secured permission for Chief Joseph to come on to Washington
and tell the Government the wishes of his people. He obtained an interview
for him with Mr. Bliss, Secretary of the Interior, and also with the
Indian Commissioner.
The old chief feels sure that his request will be granted, because, as he
proudly says, he has come on himself to make it.
While he was in New York he went to see Buffalo Bill, William Cody, who,
as you probably know, was one of the most famous scouts the army ever had,
and who has done noble service for his country.
The chief saw the Wild West Show from Colonel Cody's box, and after it was
over went to the Indian quarters, and smoked the pipe of peace with the
Sioux Indians who travel with Buffalo Bill.
The Sioux have a great admiration for the Nez Perces, and their surprise
and pleasure at seeing the chief was unbounded.
The language of the two tribes is very different, but the Indians have a
sign language which they all understand, and Chief Joseph and his hosts
sat on the mats outside the tepee, and had a long session together,
communicating by means of signs.
The chief rode in the Grant parade, taking his place beside Colonel Cody.
*       *       *       *       *
King Humbert of Italy had a narrow escape the other day.
He was driving, when a man made a rush at the royal carriage, sprang on
the step, and tried to stab the King.
His Majesty happily saw the blow coming, and, rising, struck the man's
wrist. The dagger turned, and buried itself in the cushions of the
carriage.
There was great confusion for a moment. The crowds which lined the streets
rushed forward to the royal carriage; but the King's escort charged them,
and drove them back.
The King was very little alarmed, and ordered his coachman to drive on.
The would-be assassin was caught by the soldiers, and proved to be a
blacksmith, who is thought to be insane.
The news of the affair reached the palace before the King. When he reached
there he was greeted with shouts of welcome, and had to bow again and
again to show the people that he was safe and sound.
He appears to have treated the matter very lightly, and is reported to
have said to those who congratulated him on his escape:
"Oh, it was only one of the little accidents which happen to people of my
profession."
There was the greatest excitement throughout the city of Rome.
A large number of workingmen made their way to the palace, and asked to be
permitted to congratulate their sovereign.
Special thanksgiving services were held in the churches, and the entire
city gave itself up to rejoicing.
The excitement and enthusiasm must have been very great.
Crowds stood around the royal palace, and both King and Queen were obliged
to come out on the balcony to bow to the people, who cheered frantically,
and then joined in singing the royal hymn.
A friend of ours witnessed just such a scene as this in England many years
ago.
It was just after Queen Victoria had come to the throne.
One day, when she was out driving, a crazy man tried to shoot her.
The people of London were so excited about the matter that they could not
be made to believe that the Queen had escaped unhurt.
After her Majesty had bowed from her balcony and shown herself smiling and
unhurt, there was still a rumor that she had been wounded; and, fearing
some demonstration from the people, the young Queen's advisers thought it
best for her to appear in some public place and convince the people of her
safety.
It was during the opera season, and it was decided that her Majesty should
occupy her box there for a part of the performance.
The house was very crowded; and the opera was half over when Victoria
reached her box.
The great singer, Jenny Lind, was singing at the moment of her arrival,
and so entranced was the audience with the song, that it did not become
aware of her presence, until the singer broke off, silenced the orchestra
with a gesture, and walking to the front of the stage, made a low curtsey
to the Queen's box, and then lifting up her glorious voice, began to sing
the national anthem, "God Save the Queen."
The effect was electrical.
The orchestra took up the strain with her. The chorus rushed on to the
stage to join their voices to the hymn. The audience started to its feet,
women waved their handkerchiefs and wept with excitement; men shouted and
joined their voices to swell the great chorus.
The poor young Queen, whose courage had been tried enough during the day,
stood in the front of her box, bowing and smiling, until at last the scene
became more than she could bear; then she burst into tears, and had to
leave the opera-house.
*       *       *       *       *
The Dingley Tariff Bill was reported to the Senate on Tuesday, May 4th.
A great many changes have been made in it by the committee; and a great
many more are expected to be made before it passes through the Senate.
Germany is still declaring that, if the Dingley Bill is passed, she will
make such a tariff on American goods that our export trade with Germany
will be killed.
One of our consuls, however, writes us that there is a very small market
for American goods in Germany, and that our trade will not be very greatly
damaged if she does carry out her threat.
It seems, from the accounts given, that Germany buys very little from us
besides the raw material which she cannot get elsewhere; and so, if she
does make a tariff against our goods, it may not make much difference to
us.
*       *       *       *       *
Word comes from India that the plague is gradually dying out, and it is
hoped that the worst is over.
The authorities will continue their care in quarantining people from
infected districts, and fumigating all the baggage, but the fear that the
plague may reach Europe has pretty well died out.
*       *       *       *       *
They make a great deal of use of elephants in India.
You know, of course, that India belongs to England.
The title of Queen Victoria is Queen of Great Britain and Ireland, and
Empress of India.
England is obliged to keep a great many soldiers in India, and the
elephant has gradually become one of the most important factors in the
Indian army.
When the British first occupied India, the soldiers used the elephants to
work on fortifications, to haul timber, and to do any work that required
great strength.
After a while, as they began to understand the creatures better, the army
officers gave them more important tasks, until at last an elephant
artillery corps was formed.
It is said of the animals in this company that they know as well what to
do as the best artillerymen, and will bring their guns in line with the
precision of old soldiers.
Their duty is to drag the heavy batteries and the guns of the siege-train,
which are extremely large and exceedingly heavy.
The elephants draw them as if they weighed nothing, and march along,
keeping steady pace with the soldiers.
These big beasts trample down and demolish any barriers that are in their
way, and pull their loads through heavy mire without the slightest effort.
Before the plan of using elephants was adopted, the guns were drawn by
bullocks; but one elephant can easily draw a load which it would take
thirty bullocks to move. The elephants are very tractable and clever,
while the oxen are stupid, ill tempered, and hard to manage.
The elephants, despite their great strength, will not allow themselves to
be overloaded.
If they are worked too hard, or made to draw heavier weights than is
pleasant to them, they become sulky and will not obey orders. Their
drivers, therefore, have to treat them very kindly; and then they will do
all that is asked of them.
As soon as they have learned the work that is required of them, they will
do it at the word of command.
The British soldiers do not attempt to manage these big beasts themselves.
Natives are employed for this task, each elephant having his own special
attendant.
These Mahouts, as they are called, feed and care for the elephants, who
become very much attached to them, and pine terribly if their keepers are
changed.
*       *       *       *       *
It is reported that Mr. Henry Havemeyer is trying to build an American
Venice in the Great South Bay.
Two years ago he purchased a large tract of marshy land, which he has
drained, filled in, and which is now ready to be built on.
He will construct some handsome villas, facing a grand canal, and
separated from one another and also from the mainland by various other
water-ways.
Mr. Havemeyer's charming idea is not entirely original, however. His
Venice already has a very lovely rival in the West.
A charming little village has been built on sandbanks formed by the delta
of the St. Clair River, which delta reaches put into Lake St. Clair, about
thirty miles from Detroit, Mich.
The houses of this village are all built upon piles, some rising clear out
of the lake, some having small yards around them.
A few trees and such flowers as will grow are carefully cultivated by the
inhabitants, and add to the charm of the place.
The only means of communication is by boat.
Steamers go down from Detroit at short intervals, many of the business men
in that city having their summer homes in this Western Venice.
*       *       *       *       *
Spain is going to try to raise more money to carry on the war in Cuba and
the Philippine Islands. The Queen Regent has authorized the raising of
about $40,000,000 for this purpose, and the Bank of Spain is to undertake
the task. The loan is to be secured by the customs duties of Spain.
*       *       *       *       *
After more than three months of consideration, the General Treaty of
Arbitration with Great Britain was rejected by the Senate on Wednesday,
May 5th.
From the moment the Treaty was first proposed it met with great opposition
in the Legislature, and many people predicted that the Senate would never
ratify it.
The feeling of the public was, however, so strongly in favor of the
Treaty, that it was thought it would surely be ratified after certain
objectionable clauses were changed.
The Committee on Foreign Relations took the Treaty in hand to make these
alterations; and when it was reported back to the Senate, people hoped
that it was in a form that would be found acceptable.
This has not proved to be the case.
The Constitution of the United States requires a two-thirds vote for the
ratification of a treaty, which of course you understand means that
two-thirds of the Senators present must vote for it, or it is lost.
On Wednesday, the 5th, there were sixty-nine present when the vote was
called. Forty-three voted for ratification, twenty-six against it.
You will see by this that the Treaty was defeated by only three votes.
When this Treaty was signed at Washington in January, everybody rejoiced.
The United States was praised by all Europe for being the first nation to
take such an important step in the advancement of peace.
The leading papers declare that, in spite of the rejection of the Treaty
by the Senate, the American people are still in favor of it; and that, had
the matter been given to the people to decide, the result would have been
different.
*       *       *       *       *
The war in the East is practically over.
Report says the Greeks have appealed to Europe for help, and are now
willing to withdraw from Crete.
It was felt from the first that the struggle between Greece and Turkey
would be an unequal one, but the well-known courage of the Greeks, and
the righteousness of their cause, made people hope that success would
crown their efforts.
Such has not been the case.
Disaster has followed disaster. At the critical moment the Greeks always
appear to have lost faith in their leaders, and to have behaved in a
disorderly and insubordinate manner.
The retreat from Epirus seems to have been very little better than the
flight from Larissa.
From Pharsala, after their fine and determined stand at Velestino, the
Greeks again retreated to Dhomoko.
Whether it be from fatigue, want of military training, or lack of proper
leaders, the Greeks seem to have been unable to withstand the advances of
the enemy.
At the time of writing, it is too soon to say what action the Powers will
take in the settlement of Greek affairs. It is only certain that the
situation in Europe has been made very much more difficult by the apparent
sympathy of the Powers with Turkey.
The success of the Turks will certainly make them more difficult to
handle.
There is a rumor that some of the Powers would like to remove King George
from the throne of Greece.
An alliance is also spoken of between Russia, Germany, and Austria against
England and France.
It would certainly seem as if the troubles in Greece had stirred up so
much bad feeling that another and much more serious European war must soon
follow.
As for poor little Greece, if she has been obliged to appeal to the Powers
for help, she will have to be content with whatever terms they make for
her.
It is said that Turkey will not be satisfied unless she gets Thessaly back
again, and the boundaries of Turkey are made the same as they were before
the Treaty of Berlin.
Some people think that Turkey will not demand the return of Thessaly, but
that she will insist that Greece shall pay all the expenses of the war.
It is said that Russia and Germany will support Turkey in her claims.
GENIE H. ROSENFELD.
INVENTION AND DISCOVERY.
Some clever person has thought of a very novel advertising scheme.
It is for use at night, and consists of a sign made entirely of small
electric lights, which is sent up into the air and held there by means of
balloons.
Advertisers have used the pavements under our feet for their signs, and
have disfigured some of our grandest rocks with their Sapolios and their
St. Jacob's Oils; pretty nearly everything on the face of the earth has
been made to serve their purpose. The heavens have thus far escaped, but
this new invention brings them also into line.
[Illustration: NONPAREIL]
If it proves a success the glaring announcements of the bill-boards, which
annoy us by day, may be repeated in the sky at night; and the romantic,
peaceful heavens will be dotted all over with "H.O. is the Best;" and the
obnoxious "Yellow Kid," with a hideous electric toe, will parade among the
stars undaunted and unchecked.
This fruit-cutter seems to be a very clever invention.
As you can see from the sketch, it opens like a pair of scissors. Its
blades are very sharp, and as it cuts the fruit, the blades pierce right
through the flesh until they meet the pit in the center. The curves in the
blade catch the stone and hold it fast, while the points and heels of the
blades overlap until they have cut entirely through the flesh.
[Illustration]
This invention should save a vast amount of time, and be a boon to the
good housekeepers who put up preserves, not to mention the young folks of
the household who are called in to help.
*       *       *       *       *
This sketch shows a folding crate for transporting or housing bicycles.
It is a very ingenious affair, folding tightly up when not in use, and
taking up very little more room than an umbrella.
Opened, it looks like an ordinary crate--only made of iron instead of
wood.
It has a baseboard to which hinges are attached, and if desired it can
stand against the wall to hold the bicycle when not in use.
[Illustration]
For packing and transporting it is joined by straps, and would seem to be
a very useful invention.
G.H.R.
LETTERS FROM OUR YOUNG FRIENDS.
DEAR EDITOR:
I am a subscriber to THE GREAT ROUND WORLD, and read it with
great interest every week. In No. 13 of THE GREAT ROUND WORLD,
you published a picture of the iron statue of King Arthur by
Fischer. Last summer we stopped for a short time in Innsbruck,
and I saw the said statue in the Cathedral of that city.
There was one thing which puzzled me considerably and I know
that you will be willing to explain it. Why was the fleur-de-lis
placed on the shield supplied to the statue? I can't see what
possible connection Arthur could have had with France, for I
always thought that the fleur-de-lis was not borne by any
British sovereign until after the hundred years' war was begun.
Since King Arthur is supposed to have lived in the fifth or
sixth century it seems strange to me that he should have been
supplied with a shield bearing a device of a so much later
period. Since I know nothing of heraldry, I have been much
puzzled by this, and would be very grateful for an explanation.
I should like to mention three books which I enjoyed so much
when I read them that I am sure they would be appreciated by
many. They are Miss Yonge's "Dove in the Eagle's Nest," and a
"Chaplet of Pearls," and the "Caged Lion."
Wishing THE GREAT ROUND WORLD continued success,
I remain your devoted reader,
KATHERINE P.
NEW YORK CITY, May 26, 1897.
MY DEAR KATHERINE:
In reference to your question about the fleur-de-lis on King Arthur's
shield.
It can have no heraldic meaning whatever, because armorial bearings were
not in use in England until long after the Norman Conquest.
The kings and the great barons chose certain devices for their seals; but
the same device was not used by the members of a family, nor was it handed
from father to son, until armorial bearings came into use.
The use of the fleur-de-lis is not of French origin.
It was used as an ornament on the sceptres, seals, and robes, not only of
the French kings, but of Greek, Roman, German, Spanish, and English kings,
and was a symbol employed by many noble families in various parts of
Europe.
Particular symbols have in all ages been assumed by various families of
mankind, civilized and uncivilized, but they have nothing whatever to do
with heraldry.
King Arthur was a legendary person, and his story is sung alike by the
bards of Wales and the minstrels of France.
According to the Welsh legends he was born in Wales, and went over to
Brittany in France, where he fought some of his famous battles.
According to the Breton (French) legends, he was the son of one of the
early Britons who fled to France at the time of the Saxons. He was born in
Brittany, and with the help of the Bretons went back to England and
wrested his kingdom from the Saxon's hands.
The reason for the fleur-de-lis on the shield may therefore be that the
sculptor chose to pin his faith to the Breton legend of the hero, and
therefore placed the symbol of France on the shield. EDITOR.
The State of Montana has just adopted THE GREAT ROUND WORLD for use in all
its public schools.
DEAR MR. EDITOR:
I am very much interested about Crete and Cuba, and I always
want to see what THE GREAT ROUND WORLD says about them.
I was interested about Princess Charlotte of Belgium. I hope you
will tell us more about her.
I hope that Cuba will gain her liberty, and that Crete will free
herself from the rule of Turkey.
I think that King George of Greece is a very nice man, and I
hope that he will keep the Powers from interfering with Greece.
The kindergarten for the blind is in Jamaica Plain, very near
us, and last week I went to an exhibition there.
Sometimes I visit the kindergarten, and I have often seen the
girls knitting and sewing.
Our teacher, Miss Cushman, takes THE GREAT ROUND WORLD. She
lends it to the girls who do not take it, and they find out
about Crete and Greece. We are studying about the Eastern
Question, and your magazine helps us to find what we want. Do
you know any more about the big python that was found in
Florida, or was it just taken to the Smithsonian Institute?
Will you please send me a "Who? When? What?" Chart?
Your devoted reader,
FANNY R.H. (aged 12.)
BROOKLINE, MASS.., April 28th, 1897.
DEAR FANNY:
Many thanks for your kind letter. We have heard nothing further about the
python. We understood that it was to be stuffed for the Institute.
EDITOR.
DEAR EDITOR:
Will you please publish an account of the phonographic
graphophone--its invention, when, and by whom? We have recently
had a concert by this wonderful invention, and I am requested
to get all the information I can from whatever source I can. THE
GREAT ROUND WORLD, which is read every morning in our
schoolroom, is so much appreciated by all that I am sure my
schoolmates will be pleased to see your reply. I shall be glad
to get this information as early as possible.
Very respectfully,
LUCY F.
BRENT, GA., April 28th, 1897.
MY DEAR LUCY:
The graphophone is an improved phonograph, the cylinder being of hard
rubber instead of wax.
The phonograph was invented by Thomas A. Edison in 1877, and improved by
him about 1889.
It operates by means of a thin diaphragm set in vibration by the voice or
any other sound. It bears a stylus which records the vibration, on a
rotating, wax-coated cylinder, in a faint wavy line.
This line is sufficient, however, to guide the stylus over the same course
again, and agitate the diaphragm into reproducing waves of sound, similar
to those originally recorded.
The Editor is very much obliged to Dallas S. for his pleasant letter.
EDITOR.
In reply to Mrs. C.H. Parkhurst, we suggest that a letter of inquiry to
Mr. Ford will be the speediest way to ascertain where the combination tool
can be procured.                 EDITOR.
*       *       *       *       *
=GREAT ROUND WORLD GAME OF STATES=
COPYRIGHT, 1897
By William Beverley Harison
_Complete in handsome box, price 50 cents, post-paid_
A new and delightful game has just been invented. It is called
"The game of States." The directions have been written
exclusively for THE GREAT ROUND WORLD; they are as follows:
_DIRECTIONS_
This game may be played by four, six, or eight players. Two players toss
up for the first choice of partners; the winner also has the right for his
side to be "call" or to "reply."
After sides are chosen the winner of the toss consults with his side, and
they decide whether they will "call" or "reply." "Call" is considered the
better position.
The game is played with a map of the United States made of perfectly plain
pasteboard with each State a separate piece, and without names or marks of
any kind on the pieces.
This map should be large enough to have Rhode Island about one inch long,
and the game should be played around a table with the sides named North,
South, East, and West.
The side which "calls" takes all of the States in a box. When "time" is
called by the "reply" side, the "calls" must put a State on the table, and
the "replys" must name it and give the position it occupies before the
time-keeper of the "calls" can count 25; if the name or position is not
correctly given, the "calls" must themselves name the State and its
position, and place it on the table in about the position it will occupy
when all the pieces are in place; if they do this, they score.
For instance: The State of Massachusetts is put out, and the "replys" name
it "Massachusetts--Northeastern part," and count one. This is continued
until the entire map is complete.
As maps may be obtained which have the Great Lakes also cut out, it is
great fun to see the mistakes made.
The "calls" or "replys" will frequently in playing it turn a state upside
down; this counts against the side making the mistake.
The game may be varied by putting one State on the table and calling for
"next North," "next South," "next East," etc., when the name of the State
occupying that position must be correctly given.
The side having the greatest number of points wins the game.
*       *       *       *       *
=PREMIUM LIST=
In connection with our offer of any BICYCLE you wish for 100 new
subscriptions, we have prepared a
=Premium Catalogue=
This contains a list of selected articles which will be given to
those who may obtain a smaller number of subscriptions
*       *       *       *       *
Those who fail to secure the necessary number for the bicycle may make
selection from this catalogue.
*       *       *       *       *
=Copy mailed on receipt of 5c.=
*       *       *       *       *
=THE GREAT ROUND WORLD=
=3 & 5 West 18th St, New York City=
*       *       *       *       *
Which Is Your Favorite
_BICYCLE_
You have your choice of any wheel in the market if you send us one hundred
regular subscriptions to the
"Great Round World"
Show the paper to your friends, and you will soon find one hundred people
who will be glad to subscribe. Send the subscriptions in to us as fast as
received, and when the one hundredth, reaches us you can go to ANY dealer
YOU choose, buy ANY wheel YOU choose, and we will pay the bill.
Six-months' subscriptions will be counted as one-half, three-months' as
one-quarter,
_SAMPLE COPIES WILL BE FURNISHED AT HALF PRICE. (SEE OTHER OFFERS)_
Great Round World
3 and 5 West 18th Street,       New York City
*       *       *       *       *
The Special Trial Rate for
TEACHERS will expire June 1st
This rate is $1 a year, net
Regular rate, $2.50 a year
WE TRUST TO RECEIVE YOUR SUBSCRIPTION BEFORE THE
TIME OF EXPIRATION
*       *       *       *       *
A COPY OF THE PAPER WILL BE SENT TO ANY TEACHER
WHO HAS NOT SEEN IT
We can use school-books in
exchange for subscriptions
_SEE LIST_
*       *       *       *       *
THE GREAT ROUND WORLD
3 & 5 West 18th Street, New York City
End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Great Round World and What Is
Going On In It, Vol. 1, No. 28, May 20, 1897, by Various
